 www.imperial-tobacco.com 3
Chairman’s Statement
Clear direction
    In this, my ﬁrst year as Chairman, I am delighted to be reporting 
another record set of results. 
have been efﬁciently and effectively
integrated and delivered signiﬁcant value 
for our shareholders. 
The acquisition of Commonwealth
Brands was completed in April 2007,
offering us considerable opportunities to
expand into this highly proﬁtable market. In
July, we announced a proposed cash offer
for Altadis of €50 per share, and are
delighted that our shareholders voted
overwhelmingly in favour of the proposed
acquisition at our EGM in August 2007.
We expect the transaction to complete 
in January 2008.
Our geographic proﬁle includes regions
offering important opportunities for long 
term sustainable growth combined with 
core market strengths. We are focused on
expanding our current geographic proﬁle to
deliver further proﬁtable volume growth, with
expansion during the year in the Americas,
Eastern Europe, Africa and Asia.
We have grown cigarette market shares
within every region and this performance is
complemented by our world leadership in
ﬁne cut tobacco, rolling papers and tubes. 
We have continued to focus on cost
control throughout every aspect of our
business, with further cost savings achieved
in our manufacturing base. We have effectively
used our cash by investing appropriately in
acquisitions, in market developments
particularly in our Rest of the World and
Rest of Western Europe regions and in our
share buyback programme.
Corporate Governance
Shareholders, customers, suppliers,
employees and society in general expect
Imperial Tobacco to act responsibly and to
high standards at all times. We are committed
to maintaining high standards of Corporate
Governance. We have in place a set of
governance structures and practices designed
to ensure that the Group is run responsibly
in the best interests of its shareholders.
Further information is available on pages 
37 to 47 of this report.
Iain Napier
Chairman
We remain committed to creating value for
our shareholders and, as a result of our
continued and consistent focus on this
strategy, we have delivered another record
operational and ﬁnancial performance. 
Earnings and Dividends
This year has been deﬁned by growth, 
both acquisition-led and through organic
developments in new and existing markets.
We have continued our focus on costs and
the effective management of the cash we
generate. This successful combination has
delivered an increase in adjusted earnings
per share of 12 per cent to 136.7 pence.
Basic earnings per share was 134.3 pence
(2006: 122.2 pence).
The Board recommends a ﬁnal dividend
of 48.5 pence per share, bringing the total
dividend for the year to 69.5 pence, up 12
per cent on 2006 (2006: 62.0 pence).
1
A Year of Progress
Successful acquisitions have been a
hallmark of Imperial Tobacco over the last
decade. Since our listing on the London
Stock Exchange, we have invested £6.2
billion in acquisitions, in accordance with
our strategic and ﬁnancial criteria. These
1 If approved by shareholders the dividend will be paid on 15 February 2008 to those shareholders on the register
at the close of business on 18 January 2008. 4 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Chairman’s Statement continued
Derek Bonham
We were deeply saddened by the death 
of Derek Bonham, our former Chairman, 
in September 2007. Derek worked tirelessly
as our Chairman, guiding Imperial Tobacco
through its demerger from Hanson, its
listing as an independent company and
through its subsequent transformation 
into the world’s fourth largest international
tobacco company.
Board Changes
We regularly review the composition of 
the Board to ensure it continues to provide
the most effective leadership for the Group’s
development as well as planned and 
orderly succession.
Reﬂecting our ongoing focus on the
strategic and proﬁtable development of 
the business, I was delighted to welcome
Alison Cooper as Corporate Development
Director in July 2007. T o ensure the continued
appropriate balance of the Board, Michael
Herlihy and Mark Williamson were appointed
as Non-Executive Directors, also in July 2007.
We reluctantly accepted the resignation
of Frank Rogerson as Corporate Affairs
Director in July 2007 for personal and
private reasons. David Cresswell,
Manufacturing Director, will retire at the 
end of December 2007. I would like to
express my sincere thanks to them both 
for their outstanding contribution to the
success of the Company during their 
long service.
Colin Day resigned as a Non-Executive
Director as a consequence of his overall
business commitments in February 2007
and, as previously announced, Vice
Chairman Anthony Alexander will retire 
from the Board at the Annual General
Meeting in January 2008.
Finally I thank all our employees for their
contribution to these strong results. My
ambition is to continue to build on our
excellent track record and keep Imperial
Tobacco performing successfully. We 
have the people, the brands and the drive
to succeed.
Iain Napier
Chairman
100
125
150
175
200
225
Sep 07 Sep 06 Sep 05 Sep 04
Imperial Tobacco
FTSE All-Share index
Over the past three years our total shareholder return
was 106 per cent and we have out performed the
FTSE All-Share Index by 74 per cent.
Directors’ Report – Open and
Transparent Reporting
Imperial T obacco has always been committed
to open and transparent reporting. In the
Business Review (formerly known as the
Operating and Financial Review) you will ﬁnd
a section identifying the Key Performance
Indicators (KPIs) that the Board uses to
measure progress against strategy and a
section outlining the principal risks facing
the Group. We have also integrated the 
key aspects of our Corporate Responsibility
performance within our Business Review. 
Total Shareholder Return 
Total Shareholder Return is a
Key Performance Indicator
p13 www.imperial-tobacco.com 5
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Directors’ Report
Business Review
Directors’ Report: Business Review
6 Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
7 Proposed Acquisition of Altadis
8 World Tobacco Market Context
9 Understanding Our Operating Environment
11 A Strategy that Delivers Globally
12 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
13 Measuring Our Performance
14 Financial Review
16 Operating Review
18 United Kingdom
19 Germany
22 Rest of Western Europe
23 United States
24 Rest of the World
25 Manufacturing
28 Corporate Responsibility
