 6 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
Directors’ Report: Business Review
A strategy for growth
It has been another record year for Imperial Tobacco with further growth 
in cigarette volumes, cigarette market share gains within all regions and
excellent performances from our key brands.
Performance Overview
Our cigarette volumes were up by 7 per cent
with key growth areas including Central and
Eastern Europe, Germany and Asia together
with six months contribution from the
Commonwealth Brands business.
Cigarette market shares increased in our
core markets of the UK and Germany as well
as in Western Europe, Central and Eastern
Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East. 
Our successful brand strategy has
ensured continued positive developments
for our key brands Davidoff, West and JPS,
growing volumes by 5 per cent, 9 per cent
and 18 per cent respectively. Since our
acquisition of the Davidoff cigarette trademark
in September 2006, we have launched
Davidoff in several new markets and
introduced a number of successful brand
variants, all contributing to our volume 
and market share gains.
As well as developments in our existing
markets, the acquisition of Commonwealth
Brands has given us a ﬁrm foothold in the
proﬁtable US market. We are extremely
pleased with its early performance, with
returns on investment in the ﬁrst six months
exceeding our weighted average cost of
capital. Our Master Settlement Agreement
application is progressing and we expect 
to complete our application in a few weeks
following constructive dialogue with the
National Association of Attorneys General. We
have ﬁnalised our plans for the development
of our own brands and are in a position 
to begin their rollout once we have
completed all aspects of becoming a
participating manufacturer in the Master
Settlement Agreement.
In our manufacturing operations, 
our productivity increased by 7 per cent
demonstrating the excellent progress we
continue to make with our ongoing business
efﬁciency and simpliﬁcation strategies. 
Altadis 
In regard to our proposed acquisition 
of Altadis, we received European
Commission clearance in October 2007,
subject to the enlarged Group divesting 
a small number of ﬁne cut and pipe
tobacco and cigar brands in certain
European markets. As previously highlighted
this will not materially affect the operational
and ﬁnancial performance of the 
enlarged Group. We expect approval of
our offer by the CNMV , the Spanish regulator,
soon and expect to complete the deal in
January 2008. The rights issue, which is
part ﬁnancing the acquisition, will occur
before 18 July 2008.
Regulation
We have a long history of co-operation 
with authorities in the markets in which we
operate and we remain committed to working
constructively with governments and regulatory
bodies worldwide. We believe that sound,
reasonable and practicable regulation,
developed in consultation with the tobacco
industry, is the most effective approach. 
Our Commitment to Corporate
Responsibility
In recent years, we have built a strong
framework in which we manage our
Corporate Responsibility activities, ensuring
that we live up to the high standards we set
for ourselves and the high expectations our
stakeholders have of us. Our success to date
has been reﬂected in several performance
improvements which will be reported in 
detail in our Corporate Responsibility 
Review published in December. 
Gareth Davis
Chief Executive
