 We have improved our position in mature and emerging markets 
and, in Altadis, completed an acquisition that has substantially 
strengthened our business. Gareth Davis, Chief Executive
Significant
potential for
further growth
Performance Overview
The acquisition of Altadis has been the
highlight of an eventful year for Imperial
Tobacco. Our overall cigarette volumes
were up 46 per cent to 292 billion
cigarettes, including contributions from
Altadis and Commonwealth Brands.
Our cigarette portfolio is complemented 
by our world leadership in ﬁne cut tobacco
and cigars. Overall, ﬁne cut tobacco
volumes were up to 25,150 tonnes, 
while cigar volumes were 2.5 billion.
The enlarged Group has an enhanced
geographic proﬁle and multi-product
portfolio and during the year we increased
our cigarette and ﬁne cut tobacco shares
and volumes across many territories. 
Our international cigarette brands, Davidoff
and Gauloises Blondes, performed very
well, complemented by further growth 
from a number of regional brands 
including Gitanes and JPS.
Our strategy is to drive sales growth 
by developing our brands and products
through investment and innovation,
supported by excellent trade marketing
skills and strong sales forces. 
Our versatile portfolio is characterised 
by great brands and products across 
all price segments, which provides
considerable growth opportunities given
the large and diverse number of markets 
in which we operate.
Whilst we have an excellent portfolio of
premium brands, we also have particular
strength in the value segment enabling 
us to capitalise on consumer downtrading 
in mature markets, a trend that is likely to
continue in the current economic climate.
Our continued success in the contrasting
markets of the USA, Eastern Europe,
Africa and the Middle East was particularly
pleasing and demonstrates our ability 
to successfully develop our business 
in both mature and emerging markets.
Integration
The integration of Imperial Tobacco 
and Altadis has been a key focus 
during the year. 
Whilst pursuing the growth opportunities
presented by our combined portfolio 
and enhanced geographic footprint, 
we have been managing the consultation
process related to our European
integration projects. 
These projects affect sales and marketing,
manufacturing and central support
functions in a number of markets and will
improve our competitiveness by reducing
over-capacity and improving efﬁciencies. 
We concluded the European consultation
process in September and have made 
very good progress on the national
consultations and implementation 
of our projects in many markets.
We have completed the mergers of 
the Imperial Tobacco and Altadis sales
teams in Russia, Ukraine, Poland, Austria,
Belgium and Italy, and closed our cigar
and ﬁne cut tobacco factory in Slovakia.
The consultation process in France and
the UK has been completed, enabling 
us to begin implementing our projects 
in these markets in early 2009, while in
Spain and Germany the consultations 
are ongoing. We continue to offer
comprehensive support to all employees
affected by our integration projects.
Regulation
We continue to effectively manage the
increasing levels of regulation affecting 
our industry. We support sound and
proportionate regulation that respects
adult freedom of choice and recognises
that tobacco products are enjoyed by
millions of people worldwide. We have 
a long history of co-operation with
authorities in the markets in which 
we operate and remain committed 
to continuing to work constructively 
with individual governments and 
other regulatory bodies.
Corporate Responsibility
Our ongoing commitment to manage 
our business responsibly is fundamental 
to our long-term success. As a global
tobacco company we recognise the
importance of manufacturing, marketing
and selling our products responsibly. 
6 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
Chief Executive’s Review Over the years we have taken an
increasingly strategic approach to
promoting responsible behaviour 
through deﬁned governance structures,
group principles and policies. 
We have also established robust risk
management procedures, progressed 
our non-ﬁnancial performance reporting
processes and further developed our 
Five-for-Five corporate responsibility
initiative which was launched last year. 
Further information on our progress is
outlined on page 35 of this report and 
our detailed Corporate Responsibility
Review will be published in December.
Our People 
The development of our employees is
critical if we are to continue delivering
sustainable shareholder value and I am
proud of the success of the leadership
programmes we have in place. We seek 
to support and develop people in all
functions and at all levels, from senior
managers to employees who are at an
early stage of their career. 
Our programmes are run on an
international basis and participants are
often tasked with managing business
projects on behalf of the Chief Executive’s
Committee. I have been extremely
impressed with the results, which have
highlighted the signiﬁcant and growing
talent pool we have within the business.
Outlook
The integration of Altadis will remain 
a priority going forward. We have an
excellent track record of integrating new
businesses into the Group and remain 
on course to successfully deliver our
targeted cost savings. 
Leveraging our enhanced operating
platform and stronger, more diversiﬁed
brand and product portfolio will be key 
to driving future growth and I am conﬁdent
that we will realise the potential of the
many opportunities that lie ahead. 
Combined with our ongoing focus on cost
and effectively managing our cash, we
remain well placed to continue to create
sustainable value for our shareholders.
Gareth Davis
Chief Executive
Altadis related events in 2008
On 25 January 2008 we completed the acquisition of Altadis, strengthening
our position as one of the world’s leading international tobacco companies.
The transaction was the catalyst for a series of further related events, which
are highlighted in the table below.
26 Feb 2008 Offer for Logista
Altadis held a 59.6 per cent share in Logista, the largest distributor 
of tobacco and other products in Southern Europe. Under Spanish
takeover law we were required to make a tender offer for the
outstanding shares or reduce the shareholding to below 30 per cent.
We launched an unconditional offer for the outstanding shares held by
minority shareholders at a price of €52.50 per share. This offer closed
on 6 May 2008 with acceptances taking our overall holding to 96.9 per
cent, and enabling a squeeze-out of the remaining 3.1 per cent, which
was completed in June 2008. The additional cost of this transaction
was €925 million and Logista’s shares were subsequently delisted.
14 Apr 2008 Aldeasa disposal
We completed the disposal of the 49.95 per cent shareholding in
Aldeasa, a Spanish-based airport duty free retailer, that we acquired
with Altadis. The sale, for a consideration of €355 million, was to
Autogrill Espana, the other partner in the joint venture.
23 Apr 2008 Divestiture of tobacco brands
The divestment of a small number of brands in certain European
markets was a condition of the European Commission’s approval of 
the Group’s acquisition of Altadis and we therefore agreed the sale of
certain ﬁne cut and pipe tobacco brands to Philip Morris International for
a total consideration of €254 million. The divestment was completed on
30 June 2008 and will not materially affect the operational and ﬁnancial
performance of Imperial Tobacco. The gain realised on the divestment
was £174 million.
20 May 2008 Launched rights issue
We announced the launch of a fully underwritten rights issue to raise 
£4.9 billion to repay part of the debt facilities put in place to fund the cash
consideration paid for the acquisition of Altadis. The basis of the rights
issue was 1 new share for every 2 existing shares held on 15 May 2008 
at a subscription price of 1475 pence per share. At the close of the rights
issue on 11 June 2008 valid acceptances had been received in respect 
of 97.2 per cent of the total number of new shares offered. This was an
excellent response considering the ﬁnancial climate and the remainder 
of the shares were successfully sold by the underwriters on 12 June 2008.
19 Jun 2008 Integration announcement
We announced a number of European restructuring projects that we
propose to implement progressively over the next three years as part 
of the integration of Imperial Tobacco and Altadis. We believe that the
Group will be able to generate annual operating efﬁciencies from these
restructuring projects of around €300 million by the end of the ﬁnancial
year ending 30 September 2010, rising to around €400 million by the
end of the ﬁnancial year ended 30 September 2012. We estimate that
the one-off cash cost of achieving these efﬁciencies will be around 
€600 million.
For more information visit 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
www.imperial-tobacco.com 7
