 DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
Chief Executive’s Review
6 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009
Performance Overview
During another successful year for Imperial
Tobacco we have grown profits in our
mature markets and made great advances
in emerging markets with volume, profit
and market share gains.
We increased our overall cigarette volumes
by 10 per cent to 322 billion, including a full
year contribution from Altadis and many
good brand and market performances.
Our focus on building sales has delivered
5 per cent organic growth in tobacco net
revenues and 7 per cent organic growth in
adjusted profit from operations, at constant
currency and before synergy benefits in the
second half of the year, the first reporting
period to offer a true comparison post the
Altadis acquisition.
Our total tobacco portfolio ensures we
can be flexible and agile in responding to
changing consumer and market dynamics.
Understanding the evolving nature of
consumers and aligning our local market
portfolios to match their preferences is
an increasingly important element of our
sales strategy.
We have delivered excellent growth from
our leading international cigarette brands.
In the premium segment, we grew
Davidoff by 12 per cent with particularly
strong growth in our Rest of the World
region. Within the mainstream segment,
Gauloises Blondes was up by 1 per cent
and JPS, a key brand in our value
portfolio, grew volumes by 11 per cent
with growth in all regions in which it is
sold. This was complemented by excellent
results from a number of our regional and
local brands.
We continue to leverage our strength in
value cigarettes and fine cut tobacco to
respond to ongoing consumer downtrading.
We have also grown our fine cut tobacco
volumes in the UK, Spain, Germany and
Central Europe.
We are world leaders in cigars and in
spite of challenging trading conditions,
we have further improved profitability and
strengthened our competitive position.
Our tobacco logistics business performed
robustly including a particularly good
performance in France. Whilst our other
logistics operations have been affected
by current economic conditions, we have
maintained our profitability through cost
saving initiatives.
LEVERAGING OUR STRENGTHS
Gareth Davis
Chief Executive
“On an organic basis, we delivered growth of 5 per cent in tobacco net revenue and
7 per cent in adjusted profit from operations in the second half of the year, offering
a true comparison post the Altadis acquisition.”
1849 Black Sun ImpTob p6_p7:Layout 1 30/11/09  20:36  Page 6 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 7
From a financial perspective, we have
delivered significant working capital savings
which have improved our strong cash
generation and enabled us to make a
considerable reduction in our debt levels.
Integration
We made excellent progress with the
integration of Altadis during the year.
We completed consultations with trade
unions and works councils and implemented
our major European integration projects,
including merging our sales and marketing
teams, enabling us to deliver a more
comprehensive service to our customers.
A number of manufacturing restructuring
projects in Europe were also progressed.
In addition, we closed two cigar factories in
the USA and continued to align processes,
systems and standards across our
manufacturing operations.
Regrettably, these projects have impacted
our employees and we continue to assist
all individuals affected with a comprehensive
range of support measures.
Regulation
The tobacco industry has been subject to
increasing regulation for many years and
we are confident of being able to continue
to successfully develop our business in
this environment.
We believe that adults should have the
freedom to enjoy smoking whilst being
aware of the associated risks to their health.
We support reasonable regulation of
tobacco products but will continue to
challenge disproportionate and unnecessary
regulation that undermines the principles of
adult choice and the freedom of competition.
This type of regulation stigmatises smokers
and denormalises smoking and we strongly
believe that adult consumers and smoking
should not be treated in this way.
Corporate Responsibility
Our Corporate Responsibility strategy is
integral to our overall business strategy
and is embedded throughout the Group.
It is gratifying that our progress has
been recognised again, with a Bronze Class
rating from Sustainability Asset Management,
which analyses companies on behalf of the
Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
An overview of this year’s progress is
provided on page 20 of this report. More
detail will be available in our Corporate
Responsibility Review, to be published
in early 2010.
Our People
Key to delivering sustainable shareholder
value is the continued development of our
people who once again have delivered
these excellent results.
Looking around the Group today, I am very
encouraged by our significant and growing
pool of talented employees. Our leadership
and development programmes are designed
to support employees at all levels, from
senior managers to those who are at an
early stage of their career.
We are committed to ensuring our
employees continue to fulfil their potential
and share in the success of the Group.
Outlook
In conclusion, we have made significant
operational and financial progress in a
challenging environment.
Our strong business fundamentals and
successful growth strategy are the basis
of our long-term sustainability.
We will continue to drive further organic
growth, leveraging our enhanced
geographic footprint and our total
tobacco portfolio.
Further enhancing our focus on sales,
whilst optimising our cost base and
effectively managing our cash, will ensure
we continue to create sustainable
shareholder value.
Gareth Davis
Chief Executive
We have grown volumes of our leading cigarette brands.
Our Brand Performance Highlights
+12
%
+1
%
1
+11
%
Premium segment Mainstream segment Value segment
1 Adjusted for shipment timings.
1849 Black Sun ImpTob p6_p7:Layout 1 30/11/09  20:36  Page 7
