 8
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials Strategy
Overview
Our strategy for delivering quality earnings growth  
and creating long-term value for our shareholders 
continues to deliver results.
We have achieved good sales growth across our 
geographic footprint, with particularly strong gains  
in emerging markets. 
I am pleased with our sales performance and, as 
we’ve continued to build momentum, I have been 
focusing on how we can accelerate sales growth;  
how we can do things differently to fully realise the 
potential we have. 
Key to achieving this is our focus on our four sales 
growth drivers: portfolio management, innovation, 
pricing and customer engagement, all of which we 
intend to excel at going forward.
Our work on our key enablers supports the  
delivery of our sales goals. Our priorities here are to 
continue developing consumer insights, aligning our 
operations behind our sales agenda and shaping our 
external environment.
2011 Results Highlights
1
I am pleased that we have again grown overall 
volumes of our key cigarette brands, fine cut tobacco, 
mass market and luxury Cuban cigars and snus.
Our stick equivalent volumes declined by 1.5 per cent, 
a good result given the exceptional circumstances in 
Spain and trade buying patterns in the UK. Adjusting 
these factors, our stick equivalent volumes were flat, 
whilst tobacco net revenues were up 4.5 per cent. 
Key Strategic Brand Highlights
2
Within our key strategic brands we grew volumes of 
Davidoff by 6 per cent with excellent gains in Russia, 
Ukraine, Taiwan and Saudi Arabia. 
Gauloises Blondes volumes were up by 2 per cent 
reflecting a very strong performance in North Africa, 
notably Algeria and Morocco. However the overall 
brand performance was held back by sanction 
compliance in the Middle East.
West performed well in the emerging markets of 
Eastern Europe and Asia, but overall volumes were 
down 2 per cent impacted by market weakness in 
Poland and Turkey.
We delivered another very good performance  
with JPS increasing volumes by 12 per cent, with 
particular success in the UK, Australia, Portugal  
and New Zealand. 
EU Highlights 
We have leading positions in cigarettes and fine cut 
tobacco in many markets in the EU and have made 
good progress with our value portfolio across the 
region. Our value cigarette brands have grown share  
in the majority of EU markets and we also increased 
volumes of fine cut tobacco by 4 per cent.
In the UK and Germany, JPS benefited from value 
seeking consumers both in cigarettes and in fine cut 
tobacco. While Spain has been difficult, we have 
actively managed our portfolio to improve and protect 
our market leadership position. This has included 
launching a number of innovative cigarette line 
extensions and value offerings in fine cut tobacco and 
cigars. Elsewhere in the EU cigarette market shares 
were up in Austria, Czech Republic and Portugal. 
We have had particular success in developing popular 
cigarette brands into fine cut tobacco brands and 
achieved exceptional growth from Route 66, with 
volumes up by 49 per cent. In addition, our fine  
cut tobacco shares have grown in Poland, Spain  
and Belgium.
Non-EU Highlights
Outside the EU we delivered an excellent performance 
in emerging markets where we are particularly  
focused on developing our strategic cigarette brands. 
We made very strong gains in fast-growing segments 
such as superslims and kingsize superslims. 
“ 
We are building on our sales 
momentum driving growth 
through our unique total 
tobacco portfolio.
”
Alison Cooper, Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s 
Review
1 Percentage increases and decreases in our adjusted results are on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise.
2 Volume changes on stick equivalent basis. 9
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials Strategy
Realising  
our potential
Reflecting our total tobacco approach we also made 
further good progress with luxury Cuban cigars and 
snus. We grew volumes of luxury Cuban cigars by  
4 per cent in markets outside the EU with further 
success in Russia, Brazil and China. In Scandinavia, 
we have continued to build our snus volumes which 
were up by 30 per cent. 
These portfolio successes have resulted in excellent 
profit increases. We grew our profits in Eastern  
Europe by 21 per cent, in Africa and the Middle East 
by 8 per cent and in Asia-Pacific by 27 per cent.
In the USA, the integration of our cigarette and mass 
market cigar sales forces is progressing well and  
we delivered good revenue growth in our premium 
cigar portfolio. 
Senior Management Appointments
We made two appointments to our Operating 
Executive to further drive our sustainable sales  
growth agenda. Roberto Funari was appointed Group 
Marketing Director in November 2010, joining us from 
Reckitt Benckiser where he was Global Category 
Officer, and Arthur van Benthem, formerly Customer 
Management Director of the Metro Group, was 
appointed Group Sales Director in March 2011. 
Our People
Our people make our strategy happen; they are 
passionate about what they do. Their response and 
support for our enhanced sales growth agenda gives 
me great confidence for the future. 
Our recent global management engagement survey 
results were ahead of other similar FMCG companies 
and have given us a real insight into how we can be 
even better at what we do. The survey results have 
helped to develop a number of engagement initiatives. 
We are further developing our people capabilities 
focusing on the values, behaviours, knowledge and 
skills to further realise our sales aspirations.
Outlook
These pleasing results highlight the growth momentum 
in the business and provide a strong platform for  
future success.
Our strategic focus on delivering quality earnings 
growth and the continued commitment of our people 
will enable us to realise our growth potential.
Our commitment to delivering sales excellence 
combined with our expertise in cost and cash 
management will enable us to continue maximising 
returns to our shareholders.
Alison Cooper
Chief Executive
For more information visit: 
www.imperial-tobacco.com 10
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials Strategy
Chief Executive’s Review continued
World Tobacco Market Overview
The global tobacco market remains relatively stable, 
with around a third of the world’s adult population 
choosing to smoke.
Cigarettes are by far the most popular tobacco 
product, with approximately six trillion consumed 
every year which is equivalent to 85 per cent of  
total tobacco volumes worldwide. The remaining  
15 per cent is largely made up of fine cut tobacco, 
cigars and smokeless tobacco products. 
The largest cigarette market in the world is China, 
accounting for around 40 per cent of global 
consumption. Outside of China, the largest  
cigarette markets are Russia and the USA.
In mature markets, such as those in the EU, overall 
cigarette consumption is declining. The general 
stability of the world markets is as a result of growth 
in emerging markets outside the EU, where 
consumption is increasing as adult populations 
continue to rise. 
Regrettably illicit trade is a significant problem in 
many markets, often fuelled by excessive regulation 
and rising excise duties. We continue to step  
up our anti-illicit trade activities, partnering with 
governments and law enforcement agencies to 
disrupt the supply and sale of illegal tobacco.
The combination of our unique total tobacco  
portfolio and balanced geographic footprint  
provides a strong platform for growth in both  
EU and non-EU countries.
Total tobacco means we have strength in all major 
tobacco categories at key price points, which gives 
us more flexibility to respond to changing consumer 
dynamics and build sales in growth segments.
We see significant growth opportunities for our 
business in emerging markets, where we are 
particularly focused on further developing sales  
of our global strategic cigarette brands and world 
leading luxury cigars. In EU markets, our versatile 
portfolio remains well placed to continue capitalising 
on the growth in value cigarettes and fine cut 
tobacco, as consumers increasingly seek value 
brands and products in tough economic conditions.
And although consumers are demanding value they 
also expect quality and innovation, so delivering 
excellence in these areas is an integral part of  
our sales strategy. We are actively developing  
our innovation pipeline to drive growth, ensuring  
that all our portfolio innovations are based on 
consumer preferences.
