 Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials
8
Strategic Review
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s Review
Overview
Over the last two years we’ve made great progress in shifting 
our strategic focus to put consumers at the heart of our 
business and drive organic sales growth.
It’s been a rapid transition and we’re pleased with the progress 
we’re making, generating quality growth from quality brands to 
drive sustainable returns.
Our success is built around a differentiated approach that’s 
focused on applying our understanding of consumer motivations 
to realise the potential of our portfolio and offer consumers the 
best tobacco experiences.
The response from our people to these changes has been 
remarkable; a united focus on sales, on building total tobacco 
brands and on consistently applying our four sales growth 
drivers of portfolio management, innovation, pricing and 
customer engagement to deliver high quality sustainable growth.
2012 Results
Our focus on driving sales has delivered a number of highlights 
in the year.
We’ve increased tobacco net revenues by 4 per cent to 
£7.0 billion, as we continued to build momentum behind our 
total tobacco portfolio. 
Our overall volumes recovered strongly from our ﬁ rst quarter 
and we ended the year with overall stick equivalent volumes 
declining 2.7 per cent, the majority of which was due to ongoing 
market weakness in Ukraine and Poland and compliance with 
international trade sanctions in Syria. 
The quality of our brands and the growth they’re delivering is 
reﬂ ected in the strong portfolio gains we made in the year. 
The excellent performance of our key strategic brands, Davidoff, 
Gauloises Blondes, West and JPS, resulted in combined volume 
growth of 7 per cent and net revenue growth of 13 per cent.
Our ﬁ ne cut tobacco volumes were stable, with net revenues 
up by 13 per cent. We delivered further strong results from 
premium cigars growing volumes by 11 per cent and revenues 
by 10 per cent and grew Scandinavian snus volumes by 
53 per cent and net revenues by 46 per cent.
We believe our approach positions us well to perform in 
countries experiencing difﬁ cult economic conditions. We have 
grown proﬁ ts in Spain this year, but the deterioration in the 
economy has led to us taking a non-cash impairment charge 
of £1.2 billion in the year, impacting our reported results, as we 
explain in more detail on page 35.
Building Brands: Key Strategic Brand Success
Driving momentum behind our key strategic brands is an 
ongoing priority. In 2010, Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes, West 
and JPS accounted for 26 per cent of our total stick equivalent 
volumes; today they account for 30 per cent – a great 
performance and one that we’re building on going forward.
Accelerating the sales momentum behind Davidoff has been 
a particular focus this year. We delivered volume growth of 
9 per cent and made excellent progress in Asia, the Middle East 
and Eastern Europe, gaining volume and share in proﬁ table 
consumer growth segments such as kingsize superslims and 
queen size. 
“ Our portfolio offers consumers 
unrivalled choice and provides 
signiﬁ cant opportunities for 
further growth. Our focus on 
realising this growth potential, 
whilst effectively managing 
cost and cash, will continue 
to maximise value for our 
shareholders.”
Alison Cooper Chief Executive
Driving quality 
 growth Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials
9
Strategic Review
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
We’re making Davidoff more accessible to a wider range of 
consumers in both new and existing markets through the launch 
of Davidoff iD, a new kingsize range available in both standard 
and our innovative GlideTec packs. Davidoff iD has been rolled 
out to 19 markets including in Spain, Taiwan, Russia, Ukraine 
and Global Duty Free. 
We’ve further developed Gauloises Blondes this year building 
on the brand’s strong base in the EU and delivering very strong 
performances in Africa and the Middle East. We improved 
volumes by 11 per cent with innovation and portfolio 
management initiatives continuing to support the brand’s 
momentum, including the Tactil and crushball variants in France, 
and new additive free cigarette and ﬁ ne cut tobacco launches 
in Germany. 
Innovation has been key to the positive performance we’ve 
delivered with West and volumes were up by 5 per cent. 
We delivered particularly good results in a number of markets 
in Eastern Europe and Asia-Paciﬁ c with queen size, kingsize 
superslims and crushball variants enhancing the brand’s proﬁ le 
in high growth segments.
JPS continues to resonate strongly with value seeking 
consumers. We delivered volume growth of 3 per cent with 
very positive results in Australia and the UK where we grew 
in both cigarette and ﬁ ne cut tobacco. 
Our enhanced sales agenda initially focused on our key strategic 
brands; the priority two years ago was to drive growth in these 
brands and we’ll be building on our successes. 
We’re also growing other core brands in the portfolio such as 
News, Bastos, Maxim and Fine. These brands have strong 
heritage and we have a number of initiatives underway to add 
to their growth momentum.
Building Brands: Fine Cut Tobacco, Premium Cigars, 
Smokeless Tobacco
Our world leadership in ﬁ ne cut tobacco is a real strength of our 
business, particularly in the current economic climate. We know 
the category and the consumers better than anyone.
Our performance reﬂ ects some great successes in the high 
growth make your own sector in core EU markets. We improved 
make your own volumes by 8 per cent; excluding Poland they 
were up 20 per cent. A number of strong brand performances 
are driving this growth, including JPS and Fairwind in Germany, 
West in the Netherlands and Ducados in Spain.
We also grew volumes in papers and tubes by 4 per cent and 
8 per cent respectively – adding to our margin generation from 
ﬁ ne cut tobacco consumption.
Our premium cigar division, which includes Habanos and other 
premium cigars, continues to perform well. We delivered very 
strong results in emerging markets through our luxury Cuban 
cigars, with excellent growth in China, Russia and the Middle 
East and we’re also driving good growth in premium cigars in 
the USA. Limited edition launches continue to support sales and 
overall, we increased volumes by 11 per cent and net revenues 
by 10 per cent, with emerging market volumes up 7 per cent 
and net revenues climbing 16 per cent. 
Excellent growth from our 
key strategic brands
1
+7
%
Key Strategic Brands
Volume Growth
+13
%
Key Strategic Brands 
Net Revenue 
Growth
1 Volume growth in our key strategic brands is on a stick equivalent basis.
+9
%
Volume Growth
+1 1
%
Volume Growth
+5
%
Volume Growth
+3
%
Volume Growth Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials
10
Strategic Review
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Our Scandinavian snus portfolio had another great year, building 
on what has been a strong track record of growth. 
Innovation: New Consumer Experiences
We’ve made great progress with our innovation pipeline this year 
as we continue to focus on creating new consumer experiences. 
We’re developing more concepts that can be rolled out across 
multiple markets to drive growth.
Through our GlideTec pack we’ve developed an industry leading 
innovation built around the sociability of smoking, enabling 
smokers to offer a cigarette with a one handed motion. 
This innovation provides smokers with choice and reinforces 
brand differentiation. 
Since its launch last year we’ve delivered sales of a billion 
cigarettes in 17 markets plus global duty free. GlideTec 
continues to improve the performance of our key strategic 
brands and strengthen the position of a number of brands in our 
portfolio with strong local heritage such as Lambert & Butler in 
the UK and Fortuna in Spain.
We’re also focused on growing share in high consumer growth 
segments. We launched a number of brands using crushball 
ﬁ lter technology which allows smokers to determine the strength 
of the menthol ﬂ avour in each cigarette. We’ve been expanding 
our kingsize superslims, superslims and queen size variants in 
many markets and through Gauloises Blondes applying our 
blend expertise to launch additive free cigarette and ﬁ ne cut 
tobacco products.
Pricing and Customer Engagement 
Our success at building our brands is also about further 
developing our pricing and excise strategies. Price-mix 
doubled in the year to 7 per cent (2011: 3.0 per cent) driven by 
innovation and our key strategic brands. We’ve strengthened 
our pricing analysis in a number of markets and broadened the 
price options available to consumers with additional formats. 
This has improved both consumer choice and the quality of 
our growth. 
Maximising the availability and advocacy of our portfolio at 
the point of sale is an important part of our sales strategy. 
One of our centres of excellence is Australia where customer 
engagement has been integral to the share gains we made in 
the year. 
High Margin Proﬁ ts
Strong ﬁ nancial discipline is a hallmark of our business and 
we continue to optimise costs throughout the company. 
We continue to invest for growth with an additional £200 million 
invested this year in brand and product initiatives and in people 
to support our sales growth agenda. Our diligent approach to 
balancing our investments and managing cost has enabled 
us to maintain strong tobacco operating margins at around 
42 per cent. 
Maximising Cash Returns 
High margin sales generate strong cash ﬂ ows that we use to 
reward our shareholders and reinvest to support our sales 
growth strategy. Cash conversion was 71 per cent, impacted 
by £0.5 billion working capital movements, in part reﬂ ecting the 
unwinding of a timing difference in our Italian logistics business 
and investment in our sales growth agenda. This included 
extending our leaf stock duration and new product launches. 
We’ve again delivered a strong dividend increase and have 
continued to steadily increase our dividends per share ahead of 
the growth in adjusted earnings per share. In addition, we spent 
£528 million during the year on our share buyback programme, 
acquiring 21.9 million shares.
Our People and Our Values
Our people and our values set us apart from other companies. 
Our values express what our business and our people stand 
for, guiding the way we work with each other and with our 
stakeholders, encouraging fresh thinking and new ways of 
driving success. The talent, commitment and energy of our 
37,000 people around the world is inspiring and I thank them 
all for their achievements in the year.
Creating Sustainable Value
We’ve put consumers at the forefront of everything we do and 
applied that to a portfolio that offers consumers unrivalled 
choice. We’ll continue to focus on building total tobacco brands 
and consumer experiences to deliver further high quality growth 
across our markets.
We’ll be driving revenue and proﬁ t growth in the EU whilst 
strengthening our position in the USA and targeting the 
signiﬁ cant growth opportunities that we have in our Rest of 
the World region.
Our focus on cost optimisation and effective cash management 
supports our sales agenda and by building on the momentum 
we’re generating we’ll continue to create sustainable value for 
our shareholders.
Alison Cooper 
Chief Executive
2013 Priorities 
We’re focusing on these key areas, to continue to drive 
sustainable sales in the coming year.
 – Further developing consumer understandings to drive 
portfolio strategies
 – Adding to the momentum across our total tobacco 
portfolio
 – Accelerating the international roll-out of Davidoff iD
 – Continuing to build our innovation pipeline to develop 
new consumer experiences
 – Capitalising on growth potential of our core 
heritage brands
 – Strengthening our anti-illicit trade activities across 
our market footprint
 – Enhancing our stakeholder engagement to encourage 
reasonable regulatory policies
 – Further embedding our values across the business
