 Strategic Review Performance Risk Financials
5
Overview
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Chairman’s Statement
We’ve made further good progress this year, growing sales while 
effectively managing our costs and cash ﬂ ows.
Our focus on building total tobacco brands is delivering quality 
growth across our total tobacco portfolio, including particularly 
strong performances from our key strategic brands. 
Improved Returns for our Shareholders
1
We grew total adjusted operating proﬁ ts by 4 per cent and 
delivered 8 per cent adjusted earnings per share growth to 
201.0 pence. Reported earnings per share were 68.1 pence, 
(2011: 177.3 pence), reﬂ ecting the write down of our Spanish 
goodwill, as a result of the deterioration in the Spanish economy. 
We explain this further in our ﬁ nance section on page 35.
We are increasing our dividend payout ratio to 52.5 per cent of 
adjusted earnings per share and your Board is recommending a 
ﬁ nal dividend of 73.9 pence, bringing the total dividend this year 
to 105.6 pence, up by 11 per cent
2
. 
Sustainability and Responsibility
By running a successful business, we make a positive 
contribution to the economic and social well-being of many 
countries around the world. We employ 37,000 employees 
and contribute around £20 billion every year in taxes. 
We also actively work with governments, non-governmental 
organisations and other stakeholders on issues of common 
concern, such as the illicit trade of tobacco products and 
protecting natural resources, which underpins our long-term 
sustainability. More details on our initiatives and progress 
are included in this report and on our website 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
Governance and Board
As Chairman, it is my responsibility to make sure that Imperial 
Tobacco is governed and managed with openness, honesty and 
transparency. The Board and I are committed to ensuring this is 
the case.
We have further enhanced the skill set and mix of backgrounds 
and experiences of the Board with a number of appointments 
during the year. 
Matthew Phillips, Group Corporate & Legal Affairs Director, was 
appointed to the Board as Corporate Affairs Director on 1 June 
2012, reﬂ ecting the signiﬁ cant role Corporate Affairs plays in 
supporting our sales growth strategy.
We also appointed two Non-Executive Directors: Malcolm 
Wyman and David Haines. Both bring considerable international 
experience across a range of industries. At our 2012 Annual 
General Meeting, Pierre Jungels retired from the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director and as a result Mark Williamson was 
appointed Senior Independent Director and Malcolm Wyman 
was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee. I’d like to 
thank Pierre for his signiﬁ cant contribution to our success and 
wish him well for the future.
In Conclusion
2012 has been another successful year and I would like to thank 
all my colleagues; both those on the Board and our talented 
people around the world for their dedication and hard work. 
Our ongoing strategic focus aims to ensure that we continue to 
create long-term sustainable value for our shareholders.
Iain Napier
Chairman
1 Throughout the Annual Report percentage increases and decreases in our adjusted results are on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise.
2 This will be paid on 18 February 2013 to those shareholders on the register on 18 January 2013.
“ I’m pleased to introduce our 
2012 annual report which 
describes how we’re putting our 
strategy for growth into action, 
and how we ensure that we’re 
governed in the best interests 
of our stakeholders.”
Iain Napier Chairman Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials
6
Strategic Review
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials
7
Strategic Review
8  Chief Executive’s Review
11 Key Performance Indicators
12 People and Values
14 Sales Growth Drivers
18 Total Tobacco
20  Key Enablers
22 Case Study: Russia
What you will ﬁ nd in this section: 
“ We’re making great progress 
generating quality sales from quality 
brands to drive sustainable returns.”
Strategic 
Review
JP JP JPS S S
JP JP JPS S c con on o ont ti tinu nued ed ed t t to o o re re reso so sona na a a a a at t t te te te te s s st tr tro o o on n n n n n n on ong gl gly y y wi w with th th v v val alue ue ue 
se se s ek ek ekin in i g g g g co co ons ns nsum um m umer er ers s s an an and d d d d d d we we w we we d d de e e e e el el el e el e e el l l li iv iv iver er red ed ed d v v v ver er ery y y po posi siti ti t ve ve 
re re re re resu su s lt lts s in in in n A A Aus us ustr tr t al alia ia a a a a a a an nd nd nd nd nd d t t th he he he he U U U U U U U U U U U UK K K K K K K K K K K K K K wh wh wher e ere e e we we we m m mad ad a e e 
ga ga ga ga gain in ins s i in in in i in c c c c c cig ig ig ig igar ar ar ar aret et et et ette te te te tes an an an an nd d d d d ﬁ ﬁ ﬁ ﬁ ﬁne n ne ne ne n ne e e ne e e ne e e e e e e c c c c c cut t ut t t tob ob obac ac acco co co c .
Building Total Tobacco Brands 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
