 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 7
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
We made good progress this year in further strengthening the 
business. Imperial has great potential for long-term growth and 
our strategic priorities are focused on maximising these growth 
opportunities to drive sustainable returns for our shareholders.
Our business transition initiatives support our strategy and focus on 
optimising our brand portfolio and market footprint, implementing 
better ways of working, managing our cost base and improving 
supply. The actions we’re taking are creating a stronger platform 
for growth, putting us in a stronger position to get the most out of 
our key assets: our brands, our markets and our people.
Our brand priorities are built around our Growth and Specialist 
Brands; this is where the real quality and sustainability of our 
portfolio lies. We achieved some good performances from these 
brands in the year, particularly our Growth Brands which have 
grown volume ahead of the market and gained share. 
We have a balanced market footprint which is divided into Growth 
and Returns Markets. We target long-term share and proﬁ t growth 
in Growth Markets and prioritise sustainable proﬁ t performance, 
while actively managing our strong share positions in Returns 
Markets. We saw strong results in a number of our Growth Markets 
and demonstrated ongoing resilience in our Returns Markets.
At the beginning of the year, we said our overall performance would 
be affected by our stock optimisation programme, which reduced 
the level of stock held by our distributors in some markets to 
improve our long-term supply effectiveness. 
Our underlying performance, which excludes the impact of the 
stock programme, has been encouraging and provides plenty for 
us to build on in 2015.
Creating Shareholder Value
We delivered further earnings per share and dividend growth in a 
difﬁ cult operating environment, characterised by lower industry 
volumes, high levels of illicit trade and instability in Eastern Europe 
and the Middle East. In addition our stock optimisation programme, 
which was completed in the year, affected our volume, revenue and 
proﬁ t performance. 
Against this backdrop we grew underlying tobacco net revenue 
by 2 per cent. Adjusted operating proﬁ t was ﬂ at at £3 billion and 
adjusted earnings per share was up by 2 per cent on a constant 
currency basis and up by 7 per cent on an underlying basis.
Return on invested capital was 14.2 per cent and we delivered 
another strong dividend increase of 10 per cent.
A Stronger Business
Our transition initiatives are strengthening the quality of 
our business and our ability to generate sustainable 
shareholder returns. 
Much of the focus is on optimising our portfolio, improving the 
way we manage our brands to drive quality sustainable growth. 
We’re also strengthening our operating model, reviewing the way 
the business operates on a day-to-day basis. This involves looking 
at systems, processes and structures to reduce complexity and 
enhance the way we work. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Alison Cooper Chief Executive
Our Operating Environment
Global Cigarette Market
The global cigarette market is broadly stable. Around 6 trillion 
cigarettes are sold each year and there are around a billion 
adult smokers.
Our markets prioritise Growth or Returns. Growth Markets have 
large proﬁ t and/or volume pools and include selected countries 
in the EU, Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and the USA. 
We typically have shares below 15 per cent in these markets 
and focus on growing share and proﬁ t. We tend to have larger 
shares in Returns Markets, which include Australia and markets 
in the EU, Eastern Europe and Africa. In many of these countries, 
particularly in the EU, industry volumes are declining and we 
focus on generating sustainable proﬁ t, while actively managing 
our share.
Illicit Trade
Around 660 billion illegal cigarettes are consumed every year. 
Cigarette smuggling and counterfeiting deprive governments 
of around £30 billion in legitimate taxes per annum. 
We work with governments and law enforcement agencies 
to combat illicit trade, investing in systems and processes to 
improve the security of our products and sharing intelligence 
to help authorities disrupt the supply of illegal cigarettes. 
Regulating Tobacco
Regulation is driven by the World Health Organization (WHO, 
through the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, the 
FCTC), the European Commission (through the European Union 
Tobacco Products Directive, the EUTPD) and the USA’s Food 
and Drug Administration (FDA). 
We support reasonable regulation, such as appropriate 
ingredients disclosure and measures that will reduce illicit trade 
and stop children smoking. 
We don’t support disproportionate regulation such as display 
bans, plain packaging and excessive excise increases. 
These measures don’t have any material impact on tobacco 
consumption and only serve to disrupt markets and fuel 
illicit trade. 
We reinforced this with governments and regulators during the 
revision of the EUTPD, which includes legislation to standardise 
the appearance and taste of tobacco products. The revised 
Directive came into force on 20 May 2014 and EU Member 
States have two years to transpose it into national law. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 8
During the year, we reorganised Group Marketing and appointed 
a single global marketing agency to drive a sharper focus on 
our portfolio priorities. We also started reshaping Group Sales to 
further support our performance ambitions in Growth and Returns 
Markets. Other business functions are also evolving in line with our 
transition agenda.
Portfolio Priorities
Our portfolio consists of Growth, Specialist and Portfolio Brands. 
Our priority is to drive the performance of Growth and Specialist 
Brands and build the contribution they make to our business.
Portfolio Brands are a mix of local and regional offerings that fulﬁ l 
a variety of roles. Some have the capacity to keep adding to our 
volume and revenue momentum; others are being delisted or 
migrated into Growth Brands. 
We’re making good progress with brand migrations. We 
successfully achieved several migrations during the year and 
accelerated plans for further migration initiatives, which will 
continue into 2015.
Good Performance from Growth Brands
Our Growth Brands are: Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes, JPS, 
West, Fine, News, USA Gold, Bastos, Lambert & Butler and 
Parker & Simpson.
In optimising our portfolio we’ve clustered these 10 brands on to 
ﬁ ve platforms, or ‘brand chassis’. Brands that share the same 
chassis also share the same growth initiatives, including innovations 
and pack designs. This reduces cost and complexity and drives 
greater consistency in the way we drive their performance.
Growth Brands continued to outperform the market, with 
underlying volumes up 7 per cent and underlying net revenue 
up 9 per cent. In contrast, market volumes in our geographic 
footprint declined by 4 per cent.
Brand migrations supported the performance of our Growth Brands 
and included the migration of Royale Club to Parker & Simpson in 
Iraq, Brooklyn to West in Spain and Maxim to JPS in Greece.
Performance highlights included JPS growth in Australia and the 
EU, Davidoff gains in Germany and Taiwan, and good progress 
from West in Turkey, Ukraine and Japan. Innovation initiatives and a 
new international marketing campaign supported the development 
of Gauloises Blondes. USA Gold maintained its momentum in key 
focus states and there were further launches of Parker & Simpson, 
extending the brand’s presence to 27 markets. Bastos performed 
well in Vietnam and we grew Fine volumes in Africa and News 
volumes in France. We also strengthened the UK share of Lambert 
& Butler with a new value variant.
Our total Group tobacco volumes for the year were 294 billion stick 
equivalents, compared with 317 billion last year. This reﬂ ects the 
impact of market declines and our stock optimisation programme, 
which reduced the level of stock held by distributors by more than 
9 billion stick equivalents.
Growth Brands accounted for 44.5 per cent of total Group 
tobacco volumes (131 billion), an increase of 380 basis points, 
and 41.6 per cent of overall tobacco net revenue, an increase of 
270 basis points. On an aggregate basis, we grew the market 
share of our Growth Brands to 5.7 per cent.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
Sales Growth Drivers
We have selected four sales growth drivers that we want 
to excel at: portfolio management, innovation, customer 
engagement and pricing. 
We apply our expertise in each of these areas in all our 
markets to drive the performance of our Growth and Specialist 
Brands. This is where the quality of our portfolio lies and we 
continually seek to grow and develop these brands.
Through portfolio management we focus on connecting 
our brands with consumers to enhance brand equity and 
build sales. 
With innovation we’re creating a drumbeat of initiatives: small 
and frequent innovations that keep our brands fresh, vibrant 
and relevant to consumers.
Strong retailer partnerships are integral to customer 
engagement. We work with retailers to support their business 
and maximise the availability and advocacy of our brands at 
the point of sale.
We evaluate pricing opportunities by brand, pack size and 
sales channel. We take excise structures into account when 
making pricing decisions and focus on maximising revenue 
growth while continuing to give consumers value for money.
Strong Returns from Specialist Brands
We have quality brands and products that span the tobacco 
spectrum and this is reﬂ ected in our Specialist Brands: Style, 
Gitanes (cigarettes), Golden Virginia, Drum, Route 66 (ﬁ ne cut 
tobacco), Cohiba, Montecristo, Romeo Y Julieta (premium cigars), 
Backwoods (cigars), Skruf (snus) and Rizla (papers).
These brands appeal to speciﬁ c consumer groups and generate 
strong returns.
Contributions from Golden Virginia, Drum, Route 66 and Rizla 
continued to underpin our world leadership in ﬁ ne cut tobacco 
and papers, while some challenging market conditions and stock 
optimisation initiatives in Eastern Europe and the Middle East 
affected the performance of Style and Gitanes.
Our premium cigars, led by Cohiba, Montecristo and Romeo Y 
Julieta, made gains in a number of Growth Markets and Skruf 
had another excellent year, further enhancing our share position 
in Scandinavia.
We increased Specialist Brands net revenues by 2 per cent on 
an underlying basis and these brands continued to account for 
12.3 per cent of our overall tobacco net revenue.
Encouraging Progress in Growth Markets
We have relatively small positions in Growth Markets and see 
considerable opportunities to build on them to generate long-term 
share and proﬁ t growth. Key territories include the USA and 
selected countries in the EU, Eastern Europe, Asia and the 
Middle East. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 9
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Brand Migrations
Our brand migration strategy focuses on migrating Portfolio 
Brands into Growth Brands. 
We have a considerable number of Portfolio Brands, a legacy 
of our long acquisition track record. Many are single market 
offerings with limited brand equity. These brands can better 
support our quality growth aspirations by being migrated into 
stronger, higher-quality Growth Brands.
Migrations are carefully planned and implemented gradually, 
usually over a three to six-month period. 
A key measure of success is the number of consumers who 
can be persuaded to complete the journey from one brand to 
another. In the ﬁ ve brand migrations we completed in the year, 
we’ve achieved a high success rate in transitioning consumers.
As well as supporting the global development of our Growth 
Brands, brand migrations are reducing the complexity of our 
business and supporting our cost optimisation programme.
More brand migrations will be progressed in 2015 as we 
continue to focus on simplifying our portfolio and building 
momentum behind our Growth Brands.
Our overall share position in Growth Markets was up slightly 
to 5.8 per cent and our ﬁ nancial performance was good, with 
underlying net revenue up 7 per cent.
We made good progress in a broad spread of these markets 
including Italy, Greece, Sweden, Norway, Taiwan, Cambodia and 
Kazakhstan. Results in Russia were undermined by difﬁ cult trading 
conditions, as industry volumes continued to decline following 
excise increases and changes to regulation and the route to 
market. In the USA, we improved our share position in a number 
of key states.
In July we agreed to invest $7.1 billion (£4.2 billion) to acquire a 
number of assets in the USA from Reynolds American. These 
assets are being sold as a result of the acquisition of Lorillard by 
Reynolds American and include a portfolio of US cigarette brands 
and blu, a leading e-cigarette brand in the USA. The cigarette 
brands are being acquired without historic product liabilities. 
An indemnity against such liabilities will be provided by Reynolds 
American under the terms of the transaction.
The acquisition will be debt ﬁ nanced and is subject to regulatory 
and shareholder approval, which we expect to receive in the spring 
of 2015. This is a key strategic investment for the Group that will 
transform our USA operations, diversify our proﬁ t stream and 
create signiﬁ cant value for our shareholders.
Resilience in Returns Markets
In Returns Markets we focus on sustainable proﬁ t performance and 
actively managing our market share. Key territories include Australia 
and selected countries in the EU, Eastern Europe and Africa.
We divide Returns Markets into North and South for reporting 
purposes. Trading remains challenging in a number of these 
markets, particularly in Returns South, where difﬁ cult economic 
conditions and illicit trade are resulting in industry volume declines.
We delivered a resilient performance against that backdrop, with 
good results in Germany, Portugal, Australia, Ukraine and Algeria 
mitigating the impact of weakness in Spain, France and Morocco.
Our share across Returns Markets was 26.7 per cent compared 
with 27.3 per cent last year, largely reﬂ ecting the weighting of 
higher, than average market size declines in the UK and Morocco 
where we have higher share than in other Returns Markets. We 
grew net revenue per thousand stick equivalents by 4 per cent. 
Adjusted operating proﬁ t was up by 1 per cent, a robust result 
given the pressures in Returns South.
Growth Brands generated 43.2 per cent of tobacco net revenue in 
Returns Markets, up by 270 basis points.
Fontem Ventures
Our standalone non-tobacco subsidiary Fontem Ventures launched 
the Puritane e-cigarette brand in the UK in February. Puritane was 
initially sold exclusively through the national retailer Boots and 
Fontem is now widening the brand’s availability in the UK by 
partnering with additional retailers.
Fontem Ventures is also focused on expanding its presence across 
Europe with a second e-vapour product. Earlier expansion plans 
were revised after Imperial agreed to buy assets that were being 
sold as a result of the acquisition of Lorillard by Reynolds American. 
These assets include the e-cigarette brand blu, which is sold in the 
UK and the USA.
Fontem Ventures continues to assess other potential product 
launches, in a variety of non-tobacco lifestyle consumer categories, 
while further developing and licensing its patented technologies.
Logista
Logista is one of the largest and most dynamic logistics businesses 
in Europe, making more than 35 million deliveries a year to 300,000 
outlets across Spain, France, Italy, Portugal and Poland.
The business services tobacco and non-tobacco customers 
and has a long track record of delivering good results in tough 
conditions. 2014 was no exception, with distribution fees up 
2 per cent at £848 million. Adjusted operating proﬁ t was 
£166 million compared with £176 million last year, largely due 
to one-off items.
In tobacco logistics, cost control measures and efﬁ ciency 
improvement programmes continued to mitigate the impact of 
tobacco volume declines. In non-tobacco logistics, our transport 
business performed well in Spain and we continued to grow sales 
in our direct delivery pharma business. We also grew sales of 
convenience products in the tobacconist channel.
The Logista team continues to focus on managing costs and 
generating new growth opportunities to drive the proﬁ table 
development of the business.
In July a partial IPO of Logista on the Spanish Stock Market 
resulted in the sale of approximately 30 per cent of Logista for a 
consideration of £395 million net of fees (€518 million). Retaining a 
majority shareholder position ensures we continue to beneﬁ t from 
the strong cash ﬂ ows that Logista generates. 
Cost Optimisation
Efﬁ ciently managing cost and cash supports our sustainable 
growth agenda. 
Our cost optimisation programme remains on track to save 
£300 million per annum from September 2018. More than 
£60 million was realised in 2014 through a range of initiatives 
that are reducing complexity in the business, including simplifying 
our portfolio, driving operational efﬁ ciencies and securing further 
global procurement beneﬁ ts. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 10
Consultations in relation to restructuring projects announced in 
April to strengthen our competitive position have been concluded 
in the UK and remain ongoing in France. These projects include 
the proposed closure of cigarette factories in Nottingham and 
Nantes and the consolidation of French R&D facilities. It is intended 
to implement these projects progressively over the next two 
years and the priority throughout this period will be to support 
affected employees.
The cost programme is complemented by our stock optimisation 
programme, which has improved our supply efﬁ ciency and the 
effectiveness of our sales growth driver initiatives. 
Capital Discipline
We use our substantial cash ﬂ ows to create returns for 
shareholders, pay down debt and reinvest in the business. 
Our commitment to capital discipline drives a focus on cash 
generation and effective management of our working capital.
We increased cash conversion to 91 per cent, up from 86 per cent 
last year, and signiﬁ cantly reduced our debt level by 11 per cent or 
£1 billion.
Dividend growth was again strong at 10 per cent and from our 
2015 ﬁ nancial year we will begin quarterly dividend payments to 
provide shareholders with more regular cash returns.
We further enhanced shareholder returns through our share 
buyback programme, spending £341 million to acquire 14.2 million 
shares. The USA acquisition will be debt ﬁ nanced and, in order 
to accelerate the pace of debt repayment, the share buyback 
programme has been suspended. 
Responsibility and People
The responsible way we manage our business is crucial to 
our long-term sustainability and we continue to focus on 
improving our performance in the four key areas of our 
corporate responsibility framework. 
Our people take pride in getting involved in our corporate 
responsibility initiatives and supporting each other to drive business 
performance. They thrive on collaboration and their vibrancy and 
passion create an energy around the business that continues to 
inspire me.
Outlook
We are a stronger business going into 2015. We’ve strengthened 
our brands and market footprint, increased cash conversion and 
considerably reduced our debt level. This has created a stronger 
platform for generating quality sustainable growth, as we continue 
to drive the performance of our Growth and Specialist Brands.
We expect to complete the USA transaction in the spring of 2015, 
which will signiﬁ cantly enhance our operational and ﬁ nancial 
delivery in this key Growth Market.
Our focus on cost optimisation and capital discipline supports our 
sales strategy by building resilience and freeing up funds to invest 
in growth.
The external environment remains challenging but the progress 
we’ve made has strengthened our ability to navigate headwinds 
and we can look forward to delivering another year of value creation 
for our shareholders, including our commitment to dividend growth 
of at least 10 per cent.
Alison Cooper
Chief Executive
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
Investing in the USA 
Transforming our Presence
In July we announced a deal that will transform our presence in 
the USA, the world’s most proﬁ table tobacco market, outside 
of China. 
The transaction will be debt ﬁ nanced and involves acquiring four 
USA cigarette brands and the e-cigarette brand blu, plus other 
assets, for $7.1 billion (£4.2 billion). These assets are being sold 
as a result of the acquisition of Lorillard by Reynolds American. 
The cigarette brands are being acquired from Reynolds American 
without historic product liabilities. An indemnity against such 
liabilities will be provided by Reynolds American under the terms 
of the transaction.
The deal is subject to the Lorillard/Reynolds American acquisition 
receiving regulatory and shareholder approval. We also require 
the approval of our own shareholders at a general meeting and 
will be sending an explanatory circular to them in due course. 
We expect completion in the spring of 2015.
Powerful Brands
The cigarette brands we are acquiring are Winston, Maverick, 
Kool and Salem. When combined with our own brands, our 
cigarette share will increase from 3 per cent to 10 per cent, 
positioning us as a signiﬁ cant number three player in the market. 
The blu brand is a leading e-cigarette brand in the USA and was 
recently launched in the UK. Building on the strong platform blu 
has established and combining the expertise we have through 
our subsidiary Fontem Ventures will provide exciting opportunities 
to further internationalise the brand. 
Great People
The other assets we’re acquiring include Lorillard’s cigarette 
factory in North Carolina and its national sales force. This will 
enable us to sell our brands across all 50 states, a signiﬁ cant 
step up from our current approach which is to focus on 
19 key states.
Around 2,750 employees will join us from Lorillard and like our 
own people in our USA business, Commonwealth-Altadis, 
they’re highly skilled. The combined team will be led by Martin 
Orlowsky, a former Chairman, President and CEO of Lorillard.
Sustainable Returns
This is an investment in one of our key Growth Markets that 
supports our strategy and will create sustainable value for 
our shareholders. 
The acquisition is expected to generate a return on invested 
capital of more than 10 per cent, well in excess of our weighted 
average cost of capital, in the ﬁ rst full ﬁ nancial year following 
completion. It is also expected to be signiﬁ cantly earnings 
enhancing in the ﬁ rst full year following completion.
