 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 6
In 2014, my ﬁ rst year as Chairman, we created further value for our 
shareholders and continued to build the quality and sustainability of 
our business. Our strategic focus on maximising sales, cost and 
cash opportunities enabled us to achieve our targets and further 
transition the business to strengthen our future growth prospects. 
Transition initiatives included improving supply through a stock 
optimisation programme. This reduced trade inventories in 
some major markets, affecting our volume, revenue and proﬁ t 
performance. The underlying results we have disclosed in this 
report remove the impact of the stock programme and give a 
clearer picture of how well we performed.
Our results were delivered against a backdrop of challenging 
conditions in some territories and I’d like to thank our employees 
around the world for the huge contribution they made throughout 
the year.
Enhancing Returns for Shareholders
Total adjusted operating proﬁ t was stable at £3 billion and 
underlying tobacco net revenue increased by 2 per cent. Adjusted 
earnings per share was up by 2 per cent on a constant currency 
basis to 203.4 pence and up by 7 per cent on an underlying basis. 
Reported earnings per share was 148.5 pence.
The Board is committed to shareholder returns and delivering 
consistently strong dividend growth. This year the Board is 
recommending a ﬁ nal dividend of 89.3 pence per share, which 
will be paid on 17 February 2015 to shareholders on the register 
on 16 January 2015. This brings the total dividend for 2014 to 
128.1 pence, an increase of 10 per cent. 
With effect from our 2015 ﬁ nancial year, we will pay dividends 
on a quarterly basis in order to give shareholders more regular 
cash returns.
Investing in the USA
In July we agreed to invest $7.1 billion (£4.2 billion) to acquire a 
number of assets in the USA, one of our key Growth Markets and 
the most proﬁ table tobacco market in the world, outside of China. 
These assets are being sold as a result of the acquisition of 
Lorillard by Reynolds American and include a portfolio of USA 
cigarette brands and blu, a leading e-cigarette brand in the USA. 
The cigarette brands are being acquired from Reynolds American 
without historic product liabilities. An indemnity against such 
liabilities will be provided by Reynolds American under the terms 
of the transaction.
The acquisition will be debt ﬁ nanced and is subject to regulatory 
and shareholder approval, which we expect to receive in the spring 
of 2015. This is a key strategic investment for the Group that will 
transform our USA operations, diversify our proﬁ t stream and 
create signiﬁ cant value for our shareholders.
Capital Discipline
In July we also completed a partial IPO of Logista on the Spanish 
Stock Market as part of our commitment to capital discipline, 
selling approximately 30 per cent of Logista for a consideration 
of £395 million net of fees (€518 million).
The proceeds helped reduce our adjusted net debt by £1 billion. 
This signiﬁ cant reduction was also driven by foreign exchange 
beneﬁ ts and a focus on more effectively managing working capital, 
which further reinforces our drive to embed stronger capital 
discipline in the business.
Operating Responsibly
The responsible way we run our business is integral to our 
long-term sustainability. Our people take great pride in doing 
things the right way, living our values and respecting our Code of 
Conduct and I’m pleased to see that our efforts continue to be 
recognised externally. 
We scored 94 per cent in the Business in the Community 
Corporate Responsibility Index and 74 per cent in the RobecoSAM 
assessment for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. 
More information about our achievements can be found in the 
Corporate Responsibility section of this report and on our website 
www.imperial-tobacco.com
Governance and the Board
I was delighted to succeed Iain Napier as Chairman in February. 
Iain served on the Board for 13 years, seven as Chairman, and 
I would like to thank him for the signiﬁ cant contribution he made 
to the business.
I’m committed to ensuring that Imperial Tobacco continues to be 
governed and managed with openness, honesty and transparency. 
Our Governance Report highlights the progress we’ve made 
against our key focus areas and sets out the Board’s priorities 
for 2015.
There were a number of other Board changes in the year. Oliver 
Tant joined us from KPMG in October, prior to being appointed 
Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer in November, and Karen Witts, Group 
Finance Director of Kingﬁ sher plc, was appointed Independent 
Non-Executive Director in February. Both have a wealth of skills 
and expertise and are proving to be very strong additions to 
the business.
In addition two long-standing Non-Executive Directors left the 
Board after completing nine years’ service: Berge Setrakian stood 
down in February and Susan Murray stood down in September. 
I would like to thank them both for the considerable contributions 
they have made over the years.
Creating Sustainable Value
We have made good progress this year and are well placed to build 
on our performance in 2015.
The external environment will continue to pose challenges but we 
have consistently demonstrated our ability to grow our business 
in difﬁ cult conditions. We have the brands, the footprint and the 
people to succeed and I’m conﬁ dent that we will add to our track 
record of value creation in the coming year and beyond.
Mark Williamson
Chairman
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Mark Williamson Chairman
