 Chief 
executive’ s
review
“Our successes in 2005 were assisted by more
favourable economic conditions across many of the
Group’ s markets compared with those which prevailed
in the years immediately following our inception. 
However, they have also largely been achieved through
the high levels of service provided by all of the Group’ s
staff, which has enabled us to continue to win market
share from our competitors ...”
Brian Hamill Group report and accounts 2005 |  5
I am delighted with our performance 
in 2005, a year which witnessed the
transformation of our business from a
multi-functional search and selection
business to a group offering a diverse
range of international recruitment
services across various functional
specialisms to blue-chip clients, from
contingency to search, support to board
level, across multiple industries and
locations. This has been our stated
objective since inception in 2001 and
the Group’ s more diversified revenue
streams provide us with greater
resilience as well as substantial
opportunities for further 
sustainable growth.
Our successes in 2005 were assisted by
more favourable economic conditions
across many of the Group’ s markets
compared with those which prevailed
in the years immediately following our
inception. However, they have also
largely been achieved through the high
levels of service provided by all of the
Group’ s staff, which has enabled us to
continue to win market share from 
our competitors.
Employee and office information
Through acquisition, investment in new
staff and new disciplines as well as the
opening of two new offices, the Group
has significantly increased its
consultant headcount. At the end of the
year, the Group employed 310 
(2004 – 75) fee generating staff and 
77 (2004 – 23) directors and support
staff, operating from 13 (2004 – 4)
offices in 7 (2004 – 3) countries.
Business review
Our operational focus during the 
year has been on combining post-
acquisition integration with continued
investment in the earnings capacity 
of each of our five trading brands:
Accreate, ECHM, Imprint Search 
& Selection, Morgan McKinley and
WoodHamill.
Our primary integration objectives have
been to:
• facilitate revenue growth and gains in
market share through encouraging
wider group participation in client
development, creating incentives to
maximise cross-brand client referrals,
increasing our pool of available
candidates through allowing (where
appropriate) one brand to access
another’ s database and by increasing
the range of services offered to our
blue-chip client base;
• exploit opportunities in new
geographical markets by establishing
brand presence in geographies not
previously serviced by those brands,
utilising the Group’ s existing
infrastructure to avoid any significant
increase in our cost base;
• improve the profitability of acquired
businesses through reduction in
senior management headcount
wherever possible;
• establish common shared services
functions which support all brands in
all locations, thereby maximising
back office efficiency, creating a
robust platform for future growth and
facilitating information flow across
the business, for example in the areas
of candidate management and
advertising; and
• ensure that the unique operational
advantages of each brand are retained
in the Group and to this end, it is our
belief that where a brand is well
established in its marketplace (as has
been the case with all of our
acquisitions in 2005), retention of the
brand identity within a multi-
functional international recruitment
group offers the best opportunities
for long-term growth.
The benefits of the acquisitions accrued
ahead of our expectations during the
year, enabling us to report substantial
growth in all of our key financial
indicators. We have enjoyed significant
incremental revenue during the year
from cross-brand client referrals and
have also profited from a number of
placements of candidates sourced from
another brand’ s database. Thirty
consultants have either moved brand or
office, affording them career
development opportunities that would
not have been previously available, thus
promoting both staff retention and the
sharing of knowledge, ideas and best
practice across the Group. The critical
mass that the enlarged Group provides
has also allowed us to develop a cost-
effective, in-house, dedicated training
and development team, so as to
maximise individual performance 
and to promote further the retention 
of our people.
UK and Europe
In total, turnover in the UK and Europe
was £52.2 million (2004 – £7.2 million),
an increase of 627%. Net fee income
was £29.3 million (2004 – £6.7 million),
an increase of 340%. Operating profit
before exceptional costs and
amortisation of goodwill increased by
461% to £6.8 million (2004 – £1.2
million) and was £4.1 million after these
costs (2004 – £1.2 million).
The net fee income of the Group’ s
ongoing UK business, being the
services delivered by the Imprint Search
& Selection and WoodHamill brands,
grew by 58% to £10.5 million 
(2004 – £6.7 million). This delivered a
25.9% operating margin, with operating
profit
3
growing by 126% to £2.7 million
(2004 – £1.2 million). We have
continued to develop our core client
base by increasing both the depth and
breadth of the recruitment services we
provide. The proportion of total
revenues derived from retained work
continued to increase reflecting
improved confidence in the markets 
in which we operate.
The early settlement of the ECHM 
earn-out in March 2005 enabled us to
take full operational control of the
business and thus accelerate our plans
for overhead savings. This, together
with robust revenue growth (like-for-
like UK revenue was up 25%) has driven
an increase in operating margin from
5% in 2004 to 13% in 2005.
A little over eight months’ trading for
Morgan McKinley has been
consolidated into this year’ s results. 
Continued overleaf
3 
before exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill 6 |  Imprint Plc  |  formerly Imprint Search and Selection Plc
Since acquisition, Morgan McKinley 
has continued to trade very strongly
(net fee income was 24% higher in the
2005 calendar year compared to the
previous 12 months) and has now
begun to sell a number of the Group’ s
other recruitment specialisms, such as
human resources, into its investment
banking client base.
Morgan McKinley’ s business is
principally driven by preferred supplier
agreements (“PSAs”) which provide the
framework to enable it to deliver
multiple recruitment product offerings
to its principal clients. As such, Morgan
McKinley has numerous PSAs across
both its permanent and temporary
businesses, which underpin its position
as a leading recruitment company
within its market and provide a major
barrier to entry to Morgan McKinley’ s
potential competitors. During the
course of the year, Morgan McKinley
increased the number of its ‘top tier’
PSAs (those which guarantee higher job
volume ahead of lower tier competitors)
by 27%.
T ogether, ECHM and Morgan McKinley
contributed turnover of £41.2 million,
net fee income of £18.8 million and
operating profit
4
of £4.1 million to
Group results. By the end of the year,
these businesses had approximately 975
temporary workers out on client
placements, up 19% on 2004.
In the first quarter of the year we
commenced operations under the
Imprint Search & Selection brand in
ECHM’ s office in Manchester and in the
third quarter under the ECHM brand in
Imprint Search & Selection’ s office in
the Thames Valley .
In the final quarter of the year, UK and
Europe results benefited from our
acquisition of Accreate. Accreate
provides middle market financial
recruitment to blue-chip clients within
the commerce and industry, financial
services and professional services
sectors and is therefore fully aligned
with the services provided by ECHM
and Morgan McKinley in the UK. This
acquisition broadens the geographical
scope of the services we can offer to our
clients and is providing new routes to
market for candidates on our existing
databases. This places us in an ideal
position to develop the leading
financial recruitment business in the
buoyant Irish market.
At the end of the fourth quarter we
opened a new office in Edinburgh,
which will initially trade under the
Morgan McKinley brand. Although it is
still early in the new year, we are
pleased with the performance and
client activity levels in our most recent
UK office.
Asia
Our Asian operations have enjoyed
exceptionally strong organic growth
during the period, with net fee income
of £2.52 million being 285% higher than
2004 (£0.66 million). The region moved
from making a small operating loss in
2004 to an operating profit of £0.31
million in 2005. Operating margins
would have been higher but we took
three key investment decisions during
the year in order to build an
appropriate level of infrastructure to
cope with future growth.
First, we opened a Singapore office in
May, which was initially underpinned
by mandates from clients of the Group.
Then at the beginning of the second
half of the year, to complement the
existing WoodHamill and Imprint
Search & Selection businesses, we
launched the Morgan McKinley brand
in Hong Kong, T okyo and Singapore
through the transfer of existing staff
from London and by recruiting new
consultants locally. These teams have
already signed up to a significant
number of local preferred supplier
agreements with existing clients of
Morgan McKinley in London and 
are able to source candidates both
locally and through our international
candidate management desk in London.
Finally, we moved into larger offices
during the year both in T okyo and 
Hong Kong in order to provide
sufficient accommodation for our
headcount growth plans.
Strategy
We continue to pursue our strategy of
building and developing a multi-tiered,
international recruitment business that
provides a diverse range of functional
offerings to blue-chip clients, ensuring
that the Group’ s potential earnings are
maximised over the business cycle. T o
that end, we will continue to utilise the
growth in our revenues to fund both the
ongoing expansion of the business’
operating base and further earnings
growth.
There are a wide range of opportunities
to grow the business in new markets
and to take further market share in the
regions in which we currently operate.
Your Board is investigating the
feasibility of expanding into a number
of new markets in 2006, both
organically and through further
potential acquisitions. 
The Group intends to remain focused
on its core competency of providing
high quality business recruitment
services in the professional services,
commerce and financial services
sectors. Therefore, we will continue to
develop our recruitment, training and
development programmes so as to
enable us to continue to attract and
retain the best talent available. I
consider our people to be among the
best in the industry and they are
motivated and incentivised to build on
our achievements in 2005 and deliver
even greater returns to all stakeholders
during 2006 and beyond.
Brian Hamill
Chief Executive Officer 
17 March 2006
4 
before exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill Group report and accounts 2005 |  7
“The Group intends to remain focused on its core
competency of providing high quality business
recruitment services in the professional services,
commerce and financial services sectors. 
Therefore, we will continue to develop our
recruitment, training and development
programmes so as to enable us to continue to
attract and retain the best talent available ...”
Brian Hamill
