 4 | Group report and accounts 2006
Adjusted operating profit up 64.1% to £11.6 million
(2005 – £7.1 million)
Chief
executive’ s
review
Imprint Plc | Chief executive’ s review Group report and accounts 2006 | 5
Imprint Plc | Chief executive’ s review
Introduction
2006 has been a successful year for
Imprint, as we capitalised on favourable
market conditions across the Group’ s
markets and delivered a healthy return
on investments made in prior years (in
businesses, offices and headcount). Our
focus was to drive gains in market share
through organic growth in each of our
operations, both in the United Kingdom
and overseas and thereby to achieve
sector leading revenue growth. At the
same time we have continued to invest
for the future, through increased
headcount, new office space, improved
systems and a determined expansion
strategy in Asia.
We have successfully continued to
diversify our revenue streams, both
geographically and through the types of
recruitment service we provide, whilst
still maintaining our client focus on
blue chip organisations. This approach
has remained consistent throughout
our trading history and provides us with
greater resilience as well as substantial
opportunities for further sustainable
growth. We continue to pride ourselves
on the provision of the highest levels of
client service and we are fortunate to
have a dedicated and talented workforce
to drive this growth going forward.
Employee and office information
Largely through investment in new staff
and new disciplines as well as the
acquisition of the Ingram Consultancy,
the Group has increased its headcount
by 24%. At the end of the year, the
Group employed 375 (2005 – 310) fee
generating staff and 105 (2005 – 77)
directors and support staff, operating
from 14 (2005 – 13) offices in 8
(2005 – 7) countries.
Business review
Having achieved our primary
integration objectives in 2005, the
operational focus for 2006 was to
deliver sector leading growth across
each of our markets, whilst at the same
time selectively investing in headcount
in new and established business areas.
Our belief is that the retention of strong
individual brand identities operating
within a multi-functional international
recruitment group offers the best
opportunities for long-term growth,
providing career development
opportunities for our staff, cross-brand
participation in client management and
candidate sharing and efficient
common back office support.
Whilst we will continue to invest where
appropriate in our back office systems
in order to achieve greater efficiencies,
the integration of our shared service
functions is now complete. For
example, our decision to establish a
dedicated training and development
function has resulted in a significant
increase in the amount of time
provided to equip our people with the
skills they need to service our clients
fully and to reach their individual
potential. It has also had the knock on
effect of helping to keep our staff
retention levels amongst the highest
in the industry.
We are very pleased with the
performance of the three acquisitions
completed in 2005. In total, net fee
income from Accreate, ECHM and
Morgan McKinley rose 26.0% in the
second half of 2006 compared to the
comparative period, which is ahead
of average industry growth in these
regions over this period and
demonstrates an increase in market
share for these businesses.
United Kingdom and Europe
In total, turnover in the UK and Europe
was £74.6 million (2005 – £52.2 million),
an increase of 43.0%, and net fee
income was £39.5 million (2005 – £29.3
million), an increase of 34.6%.
Operating profit before exceptional
costs, share-based payments and
amortisation of goodwill increased by
55.8% to £10.5 million (2005 – £6.8
million) and was £8.1 million after these
costs (2005 – £4.0 million).
Morgan McKinley enjoyed a highly
successful year, benefiting from its
position as a leading supplier of back
office recruitment services to financial
services institutions in a year where
hiring in this sector in the United
Kingdom reached a record high.
Morgan McKinley’ s business is
principally driven by numerous
preferred supplier agreements (“PSA ”)
which provide the framework to enable
it to deliver multiple recruitment
product offerings to its clients. These
underpin its position as a leading
recruitment company within its market
and provide a major barrier to entry to
Morgan McKinley’ s potential
competitors. During the course of the
year, Morgan McKinley increased the
number of its PSAs by approximately
15% and transacted a significantly
higher number of ‘volume’ recruitment
projects than in 2005.
Furthermore, Morgan McKinley
developed its service offerings within its
markets, launching new specialisms in
HR, commodities and insurance, all of
which were profitable in their first year
and all of which will help complement
Morgan McKinley’ s traditional
stronghold in investment banking
through diversification into new
revenue streams.
Operationally, Morgan McKinley had a
strong year. As well as a 27% growth in
permanent placement revenue, the
number of temporary workers and
contractors at clients at the year end
was 28% higher than at the end of 2005.
Margins on temporary placements
increased slightly from 2005.
Our ECHM business, which specialises
in financial recruitment into blue chip
corporates and the global accounting
practices across the United Kingdom
and in the Netherlands, also had a
successful year. In London and
Amsterdam, like for like net fee income
increased by 32% and operating margin
increased from 15% to 20%. ECHM’ s
professional services businesses, which
recruit finance professionals typically
into tax, audit and corporate finance
roles within accountancy practices, is
now the market leader in the south east
of England. In this region, ECHM by the
year end had also doubled the number
of temporary placements out with
clients compared with the end of 2005. 6 | Group report and accounts 2006
Imprint Plc | Chief executive’ s review
ECHM’ s Dutch operations performed
ahead of expectations, increasing net
fee income by 110% on 2005. We are
optimistic about our future growth
potential in this region, so we took the
decision late in 2006 to move into larger
offices in order to provide sufficient
accommodation for our headcount
growth plans and to accommodate the
roll out of the Morgan McKinley brand
in this region during 2007. This move
was completed in February 2007.
Accreate, which we acquired in
September 2005, continued to thrive in
the buoyant Dublin economy with its
primary focus being on financial
recruitment in the corporate and
financial services sectors. Annualised
net fee income increased by 59%. At the
end of 2006, Accreate launched two new
product lines, HR and Legal. Although
in their infancy, both of these service
offerings should enable Accreate to
continue its growth momentum and
their introduction is consistent with the
Group’ s wider strategy of diversifying its
revenue streams from strong existing
client relationships and recognised
brand expertise.
Imprint Search & Selection and
WoodHamill, our retained executive
search businesses, together produced
solid growth during the year of 20%. We
invested in additional headcount across
a number of functional specialisms
which were launched in 2005 –
examples included our HR, T echnology
and Wealth Management practices.
Both of our organic brands have
continued to develop the range of
executive recruitment solutions they
can provide to their strong multi-
national client bases, predominantly
serviced from London but utilising local
search capabilities from Imprint’ s wider
office network to provide a full service
offering. In 2006, approximately 17% of
Imprint Search & Selection’ s net fee
income originated from continental
Europe, demonstrating its non-UK
capabilities.
As has been well documented
elsewhere, this recent period of the
recruitment cycle has witnessed a
general shortage of appropriately skilled
professionals available to fill new roles
within the sectors in which Imprint
operates. As a Group we have had to
adapt our working methodologies to
source the best talent for our clients.
Key to this has been the emphasis we
have placed on the sharing of candidate
information, both within the United
Kingdom and overseas. We now have a
dedicated research team which is based
out of London but which is responsible
for both sourcing and placing
candidates on an international basis.
Where appropriate (typically in the
newly qualified accountants market) we
have also actively raised our brand
awareness in countries where we do not
have an office presence, for example in
Australia and South Africa.
Asia Pacific and the Middle East
Our operations across Asia and the
Middle East have grown strongly during
the period, with net fee income of £5.4
million being 115% higher than 2005
(£2.5 million). This growth was largely
organic, with the acquisition of the
Ingram Consultancy in Dubai adding
£0.68 million to revenue. The region’ s
operating profit was £1.1 million, up
from £0.3 million in 2005, which
represents a conversion rate of 19.6%
(2005 – 12.3%).
We continue to invest across this region,
and during the first half of the year we
increased our capacity in T okyo through
additional office space as well as moving
into permanent premises in Singapore
at the start of the year. By the end of the
year, we employed 66 fee generating
staff across our four offices in this region
(2005 – 33 staff in three offices).
Market conditions were buoyant across
the Asian region throughout the course
of the year with all three of our offices
experiencing similar pressures on
skilled candidate supply for the number
of new jobs coming onto the market.
We expect this trend to continue during
2007, with financial institutions in
particular expecting to run multiple
hire recruitment campaigns for mid to
junior level finance and operations
roles, which will involve overseas
sourcing as well as local hiring as the
talent pools increase and improve.
Strategy
Our strategy remains unchanged. We
continue to build and develop a multi-
tiered, international recruitment
business that provides a diverse range
of functional offerings to blue-chip
clients, ensuring that the Group’ s
potential earnings are maximised over
the business cycle. Where appropriate,
we will continue to invest in each of our
businesses’ operating functions if we
believe this will deliver earnings growth
in the short and long term, whilst also
aiming to continue to deliver top
quartile operating profit conversion.
There remains a wide range of
opportunities to grow the Imprint
group in new markets and to take
further market share in the regions in
which we currently operate. We are
currently investigating the feasibility of
opening a limited number of new
offices in the Asia region during the
course of 2007 and early in 2008. We are
continuing to review acquisition
opportunities that meet our strict
cultural and valuation criteria and
operationally allow us access either to
new recruitment sectors or to new
geographical markets.
The Group intends to remain focused
on its core competency of providing
high quality business recruitment
solutions in the professional services,
commerce and financial services
sectors. We will therefore continue to
operate our recruitment, training and
development programmes so as to
enable us to continue to attract and
retain the best talent available and
maintain an above-average staff
retention rate. I look forward to the year
ahead with confidence as we build on
previous achievements, expand our
global capabilities and target higher
returns to all stakeholders.
Brian Hamill
Chief Executive Officer
23 February 2007 Group report and accounts 2006 | 7
Imprint Plc | Chief executive’ s review
Fee generating headcount
increased by 21% to 375 (2005 – 310)
