 incadea
Annual Report 2012
10/
Strategy Overview
Chairman’s Letter
David Hobley
Non executive Chairman
David Hobley
No Non n ex exec ecut utiv ive e Ch Chai airm rman an
Chairman’s Letter
incadea is a leading technology provider 
of enterprise software solutions and 
services to the global automotive retail 
and wholesale market. With a proven 
industry focus and expertise, incadea 
is a prime vendor of choice for car 
manufacturers (OEMs) and their dealer 
networks around the world. The Company 
has a presence in more than 80 countries, 
serving a growing community of 56,749 
end users across 2,090 dealerships of 
market leading OEMs
We operate in a favourable business 
environment with OEMs expanding 
their dealer networks in BRIC and other 
emerging markets where demand for 
new vehicles remains strong. Whilst 
demand for our products and services 
in our home market in Europe is affected 
by a challenging macro environment, 
we have continued to perform well 
in countries such as Spain, Portugal 
and Greece.
 
During the last two years, our 
international expansion strategy has 
translated into revenue growth from 
emerging markets. Today more than  
57% of our customers are based in Asia, 
China, Latin America and Russia with  
the remainder being based in Europe.  
As a Board we are very pleased with  
the management’s success in achieving  
a robust operating performance at the 
same time as meeting the challenges  
of the Company’s international expansion 
and transition towards becoming  
a direct, end to end software and 
services business. 
In terms of business development, 
our focus remains on expanding our 
relationships with key automotive 
manufacturers and growing revenues 
in the areas of Latin America, Asia Paci c 
and China, India, Russia and Turkey, 
while cementing our position in Europe. 
2012 was a milestone year for incadea 
in which we successfully floated on AIM 
and confirmed our leadership in the global 
automotive retail and wholesale market.  
Our robust performance for the year is 
mirrored in our growing size, the increasing 
geographic spread of the business and 
significantly growing the recurring revenue 
element of business. Revenues for the year 
grew by approximately 49% to €29.3 million 
of which 73.5% came from direct sales 
network (2011: 53%). Maintenance revenues 
had an important contribution comprising 
of 27% of total revenues. 
Overview incadea
Annual Report 2012
/11
Strategy Overview
Chairman’s Letter
31.12.2012
73 . 5%
Revenue from direct sales network 
(2011: 53%)
At the same time, we continue to monitor 
opportunities to strengthen our direct 
sales network, as we have done in 
Russia and China, and continue to invest 
in our technology as we see increasing 
demand, particularly outside Europe, 
for our cloud enabled SaaS (software 
as a service) business model. We believe 
that technology standardisation and the 
implementation of global solutions in 
retail and wholesale networks are major 
strategic priorities for OEMs which are 
being driven by a number of key 
trends including:
 a pressure on profitability resulting 
in further standardisation in sales 
and services networks;
 standardised retail and sales 
processes and solutions;
 increasing competition in the 
automotive industry leading to 
a growing focus on the customer 
and demand for customer data; and
 OEM growth plans targeting BRIC and 
other emerging markets, requiring 
standard, off the shelf solutions that 
can be implemented rapidly, in the 
cloud and at low cost.
Overall, we are winning market 
share through both existing and new 
relationships with OEMs. For example, in 
September incadea China, which became 
part of the Group in uly 2012, entered 
into a strategic partnership with Qoros, 
the Chinese OEM, and has already 
become incadea’s second largest business 
unit. We are experiencing strong demand 
elsewhere in Asia and made better than 
expected progress in Latin America 
during the year.
Underpinning our growth is incadea’s 
proprietary technology and products 
which are now recognised as leading 
the global automotive dealership market. 
This is the result of maintaining a high 
level of investment in R&D, amounting 
to €3.4 million during 2012 when we 
successfully completed pilot projects for 
incadea’s next generation, cloud enabled 
dealer management, customer + vehicle 
relationship management and business 
intelligence solutions.
Financial summary and dividend
Costs related to international expansion, 
corporate development and increased 
emphasis on consulting and project 
management are constantly being 
controlled, as they tend to prolong the 
full conversion of operating pro ts into 
cash. The strategy of building a direct 
sales and service global network has 
supported the performance of all revenue 
streams with the Company taking the 
opportunity to gain incremental business 
in its key markets and to strengthen its 
revenue pipeline.
With the Company accelerating its 
international growth and delivering 
positive cash ow from operations the 
Board is con dent about incadea’s growth 
prospects and accordingly is 
recommending a dividend of € cents 1.8 
per ordinary share. The Company intends 
to offer a scrip dividend alternative for 
this distribution for those ordinary 
shareholders who wish to receive 
additional ordinary shares in lieu of 
a cash payment. Shareholders holding 
(on 31 December 2012) 54,89% of the 
Company’s issued ordinary shares 
(including those members of the Board 
who hold ordinary shares) have informally 
indicated their willingness to take up a 
scrip alternative. Both payment of the 
proposed dividend and the offer of a scrip 
alternative are subject to approval by the 
Company’s shareholders. Accordingly a 
further announcement will be issued and 
a circular will be sent to shareholders 
along with notice of the Company’s 
annual general meeting explaining the 
proposed record and payment dates for 
this dividend and the terms of the scrip 
alternative as soon as practicable. 
Current trading and prospects
Following a successful year in 2012, 
we have established a solid platform 
and business model for future growth 
and overall. During the rst part of 2013, 
incadea continued to perform well across 
the Group, with the Company seeing 
favourable market conditions in the BRIC 
and emerging markets due to OEMs 
experiencing sustained demand for 
vehicles in these regions.
incadea’s global expansion continues to 
translate into growth in users through 
a broadening customer base and 
penetration into new geographic markets.
Key drivers for our nancial performance 
in 2013 include:
 continuing to strengthen our position 
in existing and new geographic 
markets;
 establishing a direct presence in new 
countries including Brazil, Central 
America and Turkey;
 winning additional global OEM 
customers; 
 commercialising incadea’s new generation products outside Europe 
with a growing contribution from 
SaaS revenues;
 growing recurrent revenues as 
incadea continues its transition to 
becoming a direct, full software and 
services provider;
 our shift in business model from 
one time license revenues to annuity 
revenues being reflected in SaaS and 
other recurrent revenues accounting 
for a significant and growing 
proportion of total revenues; and
 identifying value enhancing M&A 
opportunities in line with our strategy 
of having direct control over our route 
to key markets.
The business has expanded in to 
geographical territories at a rate faster 
than had initially been anticipated. In 
addition and as previously mentioned the 
Group is seeing increased demand from 
its clients, particularly those outside 
Europe, for the Company’s cloud/SaaS 
business model.
The faster than expected expansion 
into direct service delivery within 
new geographic territories, will 
demand additional investment across 
the Group. This investment is required 
to support the Company’s accelerated 
growth pro le.
