 incadea
Annual Report 2012
06/
General Information Overview
Product and Service Overview
incadea has focused on developing a product 
portfolio specifically for the automotive retail 
industry and today that portfolio covers all 
business processes for the full range of car 
dealer networks, from franchised dealers on 
a single site with five users, to dealer groups 
with over 100 sites servicing more than 1,000 
users. All of the Group’s products run on 
Microsoft’s enterprise technology platform 
and incorporate the Group’s own proprietary 
software to address the automotive retail 
industry requirements. The incadea product 
range is fully integrated but can also 
stand alone.
Product and 
Service 
Overview
Introduction
Dealer  
Management Solution
Products
incadea’s primary product is its dealer 
management solution (“DMS”), 
incadea.engine, which provides 
automotive dealers with the capability  
to integrate departmental functions  
and business processes with the aim of 
increasing productivity and efficiency. 
The Group has invested substantial 
resources in product development, 
with approximately €10 million invested 
during the last three years in the next 
generation of products which were 
released during 2012.
incadea.engine 
incadea.engine is a comprehensive DMS, 
and is currently installed across a 
customer base of 54,749 users in 80 
countries. incadea.engine enables car 
dealers to improve day to day operating 
ef ciency and is designed to operate 
in any vehicle dealership business 
environment across multiple languages, 
brands, branches and currencies. In 
addition to standard DMS features 
such as vehicle management, parts 
management and service management, 
the application offers:
 specialised importer management; 
 data exchange; 
 finance; 
 accounting; 
 reporting; and 
 marketing capabilities.
Flexibility is a major advantage for 
international organisations. By providing 
consistent menu structures and 
standardised data views, incadea.engine  
is designed to be user friendly thereby 
reducing training times for new users. 
incadea.engine records and monitors  
the supply chain from the OEM to the 
dealer and helps the dealer to manage  
its processes, inventory and customer 
relationships more ef ciently. The Group 
has received feedback from OEMs that, 
amongst other things, incadea.engine 
raises customer satisfaction with dealers, 
as well as promoting loyalty by reducing 
time to market for new cars and 
increasing the productivity of salespeople.
incadea.myengine
incadea.myengine is the next generation 
DMS which enhances the user experience 
and, with its new technology platform, 
enables the Group to provide “cloud” based solutions in order to generate 
signi cant software as a service 
revenues. Piloted in uly 2011,  
incadea.myengine includes an intuitive 
user interface and provides the user 
with the appropriate functions and data 
required, according to the user’s role 
within its dealership organisation.
Customer + Vehicle Relationship 
Management
incadea.cvrm is a full CRM solution for 
dealerships covering all signi cant 
customer processes and touch points 
along the customer lifecycle. The key 
functional processes covered are lead 
management, campaign management, 
contact management, vehicle sales, sales 
performance reporting and complaint 
management. During 2012 some pilot 
programmes already run prescribing the 
opportunities of the product.
Business intelligence
incadea.bi delivers ad hoc information,  
at the operational, tactical and strategic 
level, throughout the dealership 
organisation, including operational 
analyses and reports, trends and 
dashboards by individual branch or 
car make, as well as KPIs to support 
Company or even Group decisions. incadea
Annual Report 2012
/07
General Information Overview
Product and Service Overview
Service offering
The Group’s service portfolio has been 
developed not only to address product related issues but also to target what the 
Directors perceive to be its customers’ 
primary areas for improvements in 
ef ciency, for example: 
 implementation of automotive “Best 
Practices”; 
incadea’s products, being a vertical 
solution in the automotive Enterprise 
Resource Planning (“ERP”) market, have 
incorporated industry best practices in 
the processes they implement. incadea’s 
consulting teams through their extensive 
product knowledge and their experience 
in providing services in different OEM 
landscapes, have the ability to provide 
a part of the products installation and 
consultation on industry best practices 
for each of the installations they provide.
 OEM compliance assessments and 
optimisation;
An important eld for SW selection and 
implementation is the compliance of the 
installation to the OEMs requirements as 
well as the optimisation of the business 
processes re ected in the systems to be 
implemented. incadea’s solutions and 
services address the whole chain of the 
automotive’s ERP landscape (from the 
central OEM installations, to the National 
companies down to the dealer and 
service workshops), providing the ability 
for end users to be compliant with the 
central OEM requirements as well as to 
have an optimum way of operating. 
 implementation assurance for critical 
business applications;
It is a general requirement in the 
software industry for ERP software 
to inform critical business applications 
for product and services providers. 
incadea provides implementation 
assurance for the critical business 
applications, through its well de ned 
implementation methodology. This 
addresses any issues that may occur 
early and provides solutions to ensure 
the continuity of the critical operations.
 operational optimisation to maximise 
return on investments;
A major outcome that customers look for 
when selecting an ERP software is the 
optimisation of its operation. Speci cally, 
as the introduction of a new ERP is 
accompanied by a signi cant investment 
in terms of capital expenditure as well 
as operating expenditure by the end 
customer, customers want to maximise 
their investment through process 
optimisation that should lead either to 
an increase of turnover or optimisation 
of their costs. incadea products and 
services cover this need by providing 
end to end transparency to the business 
processes that run either at the local 
level of a dealer or in the whole chain 
from the central OEM down to the service 
workshop (ordering processes, resource 
optimisation, selling, marketing activities, 
vehicles handling etc are examples of 
processes or areas that are optimised 
from incadea products and services).
Speci c consulting services provided by 
the Group include: project management; 
business consulting; technical consulting; 
software implementation; and training 
and support.
The Group also intends to develop 
training and support centres in Europe, 
Latin America and Asia, with the 
cooperation of its key OEMs, in order to 
provide training related to products, OEM 
business processes, OEM methodologies 
and certi cation processes.
Cloud strategy
The Group’s cloud strategy is customer driven and also follows the current 
Microsoft strategy of shifting focus 
towards providing all applications in the 
cloud. As a result, customers have the 
option of applications being installed 
locally or provided in the cloud. The new 
generation of incadea products are all 
cloud enabled.
Sales & Marketing
Distribution channels
Historically, the Group has sold 
solutions to end customers through 
local VAR partners responsible for 
product localisation, implementation 
services, ongoing support and 
consulting. Increasingly, the Group is 
establishing its own local subsidiaries 
as it expands and intends to acquire 
its local partners where desirable in 
order to be able to provide added 
value services to its customers. The 
Directors believe that this strategy 
should also improve control over 
the product and customer base 
as the business expands.
incadea Value Added Reseller 
(“VAR”) Partner Business Model
The Group operates a VAR business 
model in various markets and the 
Company believes that this model 
will continue to contribute to the 
Group’s success in achieving rapid 
growth and increasing market 
coverage worldwide. The Group 
incentivises the better performing 
VAR partners by granting them more 
favourable terms.
Global Market Channel Strategy
A key element of the Group’s global 
expansion plan is to establish, as full 
service providers, local subsidiaries 
in all its strategically signi cant 
automotive markets, especially 
the BRIC countries. As part of this 
strategy, the Group plans to acquire 
certain existing and new local 
distribution partners that have been 
successful in satisfying the Group’s 
high operating standards as well 
as expanding the Group’s local 
customer base.
