 We are confident that the conditions 
and prospects in our markets remain 
positive, setting a foundation for the 
further growth of incadea. 
David Hobley 
Chairman
2013 was another milestone year for incadea, in 
which we achieved further growth of the business 
in terms of revenues, clients and geographies 
alongside the successful completion of projects 
and tasks of strategic importance.
Chairman’s 
Letter
Revenues for the year grew by 
approximately 23% to €36.0 million 
(2102: €29.3 million) delivering an 
EBITDA margin of 21.3% (2012: 
21.4%). Of the total revenue, 
approximately 36% was derived from 
licences sold while maintenance 
contributed another 23%. 
Reflecting upon the strategic priorities 
set out at the beginning of the year, 
I am delighted that we managed to 
successfully deliver on all of them. 
We continued our global expansion, 
with incadea now serving more than 
67,000 end users in more than 2,400 
dealerships in 87 countries and across 
all continents. 
We continued to grow operations in 
Asia Pacific, BRIC and Latin America 
and also strengthened our business 
in Turkey and the Middle East.  
We established relationships with 
additional global OEM customers, 
significantly improving the risk profile 
of the business and the pipeline of 
opportunities. The new customer 
relationships and contracts will 
enhance the directly accessible 
installed base by approximately 60,000 
users over the next four to five years, 
with the increase in related recurring 
revenues. This will improve the 
visibility of the Group’s performance as 
the contracts roll out. These 
developments throughout the year 
have gradually led to a considerable 
increase in the number and scale of 
business opportunities. In addition,  
we saw increased demand from clients 
for the Group’s cloud/SaaS business 
model, particularly those outside 
Europe. 
This is reflected by new contracts 
and other opportunities mainly in the 
APAC region.
In parallel with the organic growth and 
in alignment with the stated strategy 
to pursue value-enhancing acquisition 
opportunities in key markets which 
strengthen our direct sales network, 
we undertook an acquisition of our 
partner in Germany, RCRBS, which 
completed subsequent to the year-end. 
We are confident that the conditions 
and prospects in our markets remain 
positive, setting a foundation for  
the further growth of incadea. Our 
state-of-the-art technology and 
product offering fit the ongoing 
requirements of OEMs to standardise 
the operations of their dealership 
networks while our constantly 
increasing geographic reach provides 
us with the necessary scale and 
capacity to serve them globally, as a 
full technology and service provider. 
10 incadea Annual Report 2013 Our strategy to cement our position 
within the enterprise software 
solutions and services sector of the 
global automotive dealership industry 
is shaped around three pillars of 
growth. The first of these is market 
penetration, which we aim to achieve 
by expanding our geographic footprint 
and increasing OEM penetration. 
Secondly, we aim to enhance our sales 
model by improving our SaaS/cloud 
capabilities and enhancing our value-
added services. The final pillar of 
growth will be achieved by selective 
acquisitions which will enlarge our 
direct network and improve time 
to market. 
incadea is now entering an exciting 
phase of further growth and 
investment. In the short term, new 
projects with new OEMs will require 
significant investment in customisation 
and integration in 2014 and 2015 to 
prepare for rollout from 2015 onwards. 
Moreover, product development is a 
continuous process, while our 
agreements with Microsoft help us 
prepare for increase in demand of our 
SaaS/cloud offerings. During the 
financial year, incadea’s relationship 
with Microsoft has strengthened 
significantly. incadea is now ranked 
among the top 22 global partners out 
of 2,000 in the Microsoft Dynamics 
channel. This achievement will enhance 
credibility in the market and help to 
provide the Group with the necessary 
support to roll out large international 
contracts efficiently. 
In support of our expansion plans and 
investment programme, we obtained 
a €23 million, five-year senior facility 
with Citibank which together with the 
cash on the balance sheet will provide 
the necessary financial resources to 
execute our strategic plans.
Current trading and prospects
The Board believes that the 
developments described above signal a 
material, positive shift in scale for the 
prospects of the Group in the medium 
term. We are certain that the steps 
taken during the year under review 
were fully aligned with our goal of 
becoming vendor of choice for global 
OEMs. Our focus remains on exploring 
organic and acquisitive opportunities 
while delivering against an already 
developed pipeline, to scale up the 
business in a profitable and cash 
generative way. The latter remains a 
goal for the medium term, once we 
have achieved full roll out of the key 
contracts recently announced. As we 
grow, both in terms of size and 
geographic reach, one of the key 
challenges is to attract and retain 
talent. The recently announced 
appointments of executives under the 
leadership of the newly appointed CEO 
are supportive to the Group’s strategy 
for global and sustainable growth.
In all aspects, 2013 was a remarkable 
year in terms of commercial and 
corporate development. The Group 
now faces multiple new opportunities 
with existing and new clients, such 
as Mercedes-Benz and PSA Peugeot/
Citroën while the recently announced 
acquisition of RCRBS provides as with 
strategic entry to direct selling in 
Germany, expands client base and 
potential new customers, improves 
scalability internationally and reduces 
time to market. The consolidation of 
RCRBS is expected to be immediately 
earnings enhancing and we are 
extremely satisfied with the 
oversubscribed placing of £11.5 million 
of new shares, to fund its acquisition.  
I am happy to report that trading 
during the first three months is in line 
with our expectations and we remain 
confident about meeting the financial 
performance targets for the year.
David Hobley 
Chairman
incadea Annual Report 2013 11
