 incadea’s strong financial performance for the year ended 
31 December 2013 reflects significant progress made in 
implementing our business strategy across the three 
important capacities; new OEM wins, geographical 
expansion and new innovative solutions. We believe the 
positive developments in 2013 signal a material, positive 
shift in scale for the prospects of incadea in the medium 
term. We are currently in discussions with a number of 
global OEMs with a view to significantly expanding our 
customer base.
CEO’s 
Letter
Considering the size of our market 
potential and the tremendous growth 
opportunities ahead, my goal and 
commitment is to take incadea together 
with the incadea leadership team to the 
next level. 
Patrick Katenkamp 
Chief Executive Officer
For the first time, I am addressing 
you as the new Chief Executive 
Officer of incadea plc. I am both 
honoured and excited to report from 
my new position and assure you that 
leading incadea is a mission that I 
embrace with excitement, respect 
and commitment. Having served the 
Group as COO for the last three 
years, I have become increasingly 
aware of the positive dynamics of our 
global operations. Having monitored 
the significant market opportunities 
ahead of us, I am confident that 
incadea will continue to thrive and 
realise its potential in this industry.
Despite the challenging marketing 
conditions and the changes in the 
automotive market, the 2013 financial 
year delivered profitable growth and 
revenues which were in line with 
management’s expectations. We 
benefited from our strategic focus on 
developing, maintaining and 
extending our strong customer 
relationships. 
Our ability to address our clients’ and 
market’s complex issues and deliver 
tangible results have helped us to 
extend customer relationships with 
leading automotive players. 
Strong performance accelerates 
growth strategy 
incadea’s strong financial 
performance for the year ended 
31 December 2013 reflects significant 
progress made in implementing our 
business strategy across the three 
important capacities new OEM wins, 
geographical expansion and new 
innovative solutions. 2013 saw 
significant progress for incadea in 
positioning itself as a dominant player 
within its key markets. We are 
pleased to report that new OEM 
contract wins were also processed 
faster than anticipated. 
Customer demand and innovative 
products in a fast-evolving market 
Today’s car manufacturers are 
increasingly required to respond to 
global competition and market 
pressure on profitability by aiming to 
standardise business processes 
across their dealer networks and at 
the same time, focusing on the 
continuing rise in BRIC and other 
emerging markets. In addition, car 
manufacturers are also facing 
challenges from the changing 
customer behaviour in the buying 
process. Trends show that consumers 
are increasingly buying cars online 
and are visiting dealers less.
Customers now expect to be able to 
find information and services on car 
configurator, comparison between 
cars and models online. Ten years 
ago the percentage of customers 
seeking online information was 
approximately 20% while today is 
close to 100%. They look for 3D 
product presentations, online test 
drive schedules and arrangements 
and, of course, car locators. 
incadea Annual Review 2013 27 Satisfying this consumer demand 
requires new cloud-based retail 
models to manage the complete sales 
cycle through from the OEM websites, 
social media to integrated web-based 
retail solutions, including a large 
trend towards mobile solutions. In 
order to be able to support today’s 
and tomorrow’s market needs, 
incadea has developed a new 
generation of cloud-enabled solutions 
including its next-generation DMS 
incadea.myengine that is currently 
used by leading OEMs in significant 
markets; the automotive CRM 
solution, incadea.cvrm; based on a 
tailor-made customer and vehicle 
relationship management approach 
and incadea.bi, an easy-to-use 
business intelligence solution that 
can be accessed from mobile devices 
including iPhone, iPads and other 
tablet devices. 
A key focus in 2013 was the 
development of a new set of mobile 
solutions for customer facing 
processes. We see the trend moving 
from providing functionality to 
managing data. In 2014, incadea will 
launch incadea.connect – a Microsoft 
Azure powered solution. Acting at the 
“innovation layer” this “service bus” 
solution enables easy integration of 
data (e.g customer or vehicle data) 
across dealers, OEMs, social media or 
third party providers. incadea sees 
its strategic direction in providing 
together with Microsoft an open data 
and solution integration platform for 
the automotive industry to enable 
innovation. 
Strategic relationship with 
Microsoft
2013 offered us solid ground for 
expanding and enriching our long-
standing relationship with Microsoft. 
During Microsoft’s annual Worldwide 
Partner Conference in July 2013 and 
as a result of the Group’s 
commitment to providing customers 
with innovative solutions and 
extensive know-how on Microsoft’s 
technologies, incadea was appointed 
as one of Microsoft’s top 22 Global 
Independent Software Vendors. Also, 
in the second half of 2013, incadea 
was named as the number one 
Microsoft Dynamics ISV for ERP in 
terms of licence sales. Consequently, 
with Microsoft Dynamics AX providing 
a modern and powerful ERP system, 
incadea and Microsoft have initiated 
the co-funded development of an 
automotive enterprise platform based 
on AX, in order to fulfil the 
sophisticated needs of large dealer 
groups and importers.
Finally, incadea and Microsoft are 
working together on a fully cloud-
enabled automotive solution platform 
based on Azure, focusing on offering 
global cloud services for mobile sales 
and after sales. In China, incadea was 
strategically positioned as a leading 
partner in Microsoft’s first automotive 
Center of Excellence (COE) in the 
world at its Shanghai research and 
development centre. The Microsoft 
Automotive COE is designed to 
showcase the innovative solutions of 
Microsoft’s cutting-edge technology.
• 
CEO’s 
Letter
continued
2013 key achievements:
• We are committed to offering 
innovative solutions to the retail 
automotive industry and during 
the year we introduced multiple 
new cloud services, based on 
Microsoft’s Azure. These include 
mobile sales apps for sales and 
services and other new cloud 
offerings.
• incadea secured contract 
initiations with Ford Lincoln China, 
PSA, and Scania on a much 
shorter timescale than originally 
projected. This provided the Group 
with an important boost for its 
OEM expansion portfolio.
• Continuing its success story, 
incadea China experienced strong 
growth in revenues and expanded 
operations through the opening of 
a new office in Shanghai. As the 
largest market in the world 
(measured by automobile unit 
production since 2008) and 
through our successful direct 
presence, incadea China now 
forms a significant part of the 
Group and is our second largest 
operation worldwide. Today 
incadea China serves leading OEMs 
such as VW, Lexus, Ford, Porsche 
and Qoros.
• Achieving direct presence in the 
German market through the 
acquisition of RCRBS is a 
significant milestone for the 
Group. Following this acquisition, 
incadea now has direct access to a 
leading automotive market and an 
extensive client base. Specifically, 
the DMS business of RCRBS has 
over 1,400 customers and will 
deliver direct access to customers 
in Germany including BMW, GME 
(Opel) and PSA.
28 incadea Annual Review 2013 RCRBS acquisition
As already announced in January 
2014, incadea raised approximately 
£11.5 million (approximately €14 
million) by the issue of 11,100,000 
ordinary shares at 104 pence each in 
order to partially fund the acquisition 
of RCRBS, to support the Group’s new 
product development based on 
Microsoft Dynamics AX and also to 
provide working capital for the 
enlarged Group. The Group’s stated 
strategy since it was admitted to 
trading on AIM in May 2012 has been 
to augment organic growth through 
selective acquisitions as the Group 
continues to increase its direct sales 
routes and international presence. 
The RCRBS business develops and 
sells the German version of 
incadea.engine and has more than 
50 years’ experience in the middle 
market business in Germany. It serves 
more than 12,500 users at over 1,400 
customers and has 109 employees. 
This particular acquisition provides 
incadea with a direct presence in one 
of the most important automotive 
markets, Germany, and access to a 
well-connected sales team which is 
anticipated to lead to improvements in 
margin through an extension of the 
value chain. The combination of the 
Group’s existing business with the 
RCRBS business is anticipated to 
provide various synergies estimated 
to be a minimum of €0.8 million within 
18 months of closing of the proposed 
acquisition. 
OEM-led customer expansion
During 2013, incadea’s success in 
supporting existing OEM customers in 
their global expansion and 
implementation of their strategic 
goals, as well as winning new OEM 
customers in key territories, resulted 
in a record growth in our installed 
base. Specifically, for the first time in 
the history of incadea, we sold 11,048 
new licences, resulting to a total 
install base of 67,797 at 31 December 
2013 (1 January 2013: 56,749). In 
2013, we experienced solid growth 
with our established OEMs’ customer 
relationships as a series of new 
significant wins, including winning 
Peugeot/Citroën, Ford China,  
Scania and Mercedes. 
BMW Group 
BMW Group and incadea can look back 
on more than 12 years of cooperation. 
Today, the Group serves more than 
17,000 BMW end users across 665 
dealerships in 38 countries. Total 
users increased during 2013 by 13% 
to 18,661 at 31 December 2013.  
With the next-generation DMS 
incadea.myengine already installed in 
Mexico, Lebanon and Colombia, we are 
now working on innovative projects to 
best tackle challenges, harness the 
power of mobile devices, and enable 
BMW to implement its future retail IT 
strategy through incadea’s cloud 
solution suite. 
Volkswagen Group 
incadea is one of two global strategic 
partners of VW. During 2013, we made 
significant progress with a roll out to 
more than 1,800 users in several 
Asian countries (including India and 
China). New contracts have been 
signed in Malaysia and Hong Kong 
which will be implemented over the 
next two years.
 
Opel/General Motors 
incadea is a strategic partner for 
Opel/General Motors covering 
approximately 546 dealers in 20 
countries with approximately 16,555 
users. We believe that there is 
potential to generate incremental 
revenues with Opel in Russia with 
scope for further growth with GM in 
Asia by extending our partnership 
with GM International Operations 
based in Shanghai. 
Qoros 
In September 2012 we announced a 
strategic partnership with Qoros, the 
joint venture between Chery 
Automobile, one of the largest 
Chinese OEMs, and Israel 
Corporation. In 2013, we have 
continued and further expanded our 
strategic partnership with Qoros, by 
developing some innovative mobile 
business solutions. Qoros is also 
planning to use incadea as the 
strategic software partner for its 
planned entry into the European 
market in 2015. This partnership has 
significant strategic importance for 
the Chinese market and incadea is 
the first international provider in this 
area to win a major deal with a 
Chinese OEM. 
incadea Annual Review 2013 29 China and Asia Pacific
Since 2009 annual production of 
automobiles in China has exceeded 
that of the European Union and that 
of the United States and Japan 
combined. In 2010, both sales and 
production topped 18 million units, 
with 13.76 million passenger cars 
delivered, in each case the largest by 
any nation in history. Estimates by 
international research companies 
state that China will control 40% of 
the world’s luxury auto market by 
2020. In 2013, two years after 
establishing a strong position in the 
market, incadea opened a new office 
in Shanghai to better serve its 
customers located in the city and 
nearby areas. In financial year 2013, 
revenues reached €5.5 million 
(2012: €3.3 million), while the 
Company increased its workforce 
from 16 to 50 people. incadea China 
supports leading automotive players 
like Ford Lincoln, Lexus, Porsche, 
VW and Qoros. With China and APAC 
(served by incadea New Zealand) 
being key drivers for incadea growth, 
the Group decided to split the two 
regions and address them individually 
for an even more focused approach in 
these markets. 
In the APAC region, incadea has 
increased its installed customer base 
from 7,170 in 2012 to 9,206 in 2013, 
with €3 million revenues in financial 
year 2013. The Group is examining 
significant expansion plans in Japan, 
Korea, Malaysia and Indonesia.
CEO’s 
Letter
continued
New strategic OEM wins
Ford Lincoln China 
As announced on 2 May 2013, 
through its wholly owned subsidiary 
in China, incadea has signed a 
five-year agreement with the global 
US car manufacturer. The contract is 
worth several million US dollars for 
software licences and services and 
covers the full incadea product 
portfolio from incadea.myengine, 
CVRM, BI and mobile services 
provided out of a private-cloud 
environment. This is a strategic win 
which has the potential to be an 
entry point into an Asia-wide strategy 
with Ford.
PSA Peugeot Citroen 
As announced on 11 February 2014, 
incadea has signed a five-year 
agreement with the car manufacturer 
PSA Peugeot Citroën. Through this 
agreement incadea has been 
appointed as a global DMS software 
vendor to cover both Peugeot and 
Citroën Automobile networks globally. 
As is common for these large, 
multi-year deals, the first year of the 
agreement will see integration work 
ahead of deployment in later years. 
In this instance, software rollout will 
materially commence from 2015 over 
a period of several years. Under the 
terms of this agreement, incadea will 
develop a full integration layer based 
on its next-generation DMS, 
incadea.myengine. The agreement is 
currently focusing on 12 European 
countries with approximately 2,000 
dealer sites and about 30,000 DMS 
users. We are delighted to have 
signed this global agreement with 
PSA Peugeot Citroën and feel 
confident that we will extend our 
cooperation in additional geographical 
markets and through further state-
of-the-art IT projects.
Mercedes-Benz Mexico
incadea.myengine will be one of two 
officially certified DMS systems for 
Mercedes-Benz dealerships in Mexico. 
incadea.myengine has been enhanced 
with an International Make Layer, so 
that it is optimised to meet the 
specific needs of this OEM, and will 
be localised and adapted to the 
business and market requirements of 
Mexico. There are 22 Mercedes-Benz 
dealerships in Mexico. Mexico 
represents Mercedes-Benz’s second 
fastest growing market with a growth 
rate of 29.9%, behind only Japan at 
38.5%. Over several years incadea 
has expanded its relationship with 
Mercedes-Benz, to now serve more 
than 4,000 Mercedes-Benz end users 
across 140 dealerships in 16 
geographical markets, including 
countries such as Greece, Austria, 
Belgium and Slovakia.
Europe 
Despite challenging marketing 
conditions and the unprecedented 
changes in the European automotive 
market over the last few years, the 
car market has started to recover. 
Car sales overall in Europe fell at a 
slower rate than in previous years 
and there was an increase in vehicle 
sales in Southern Europe. Through 
our new agreement with PSA, latest 
wins across the Mercedes network 
and significant projects with BMW in 
Germany and France, incadea 
accelerated business in Europe. In 
parallel, through the acquisition of 
RCRBS, incadea now has the 
opportunity to play a leading role 
within the German market, which still 
remains the largest one in Europe.
30 incadea Annual Review 2013 India, Middle East and Turkey
As at 2010, India had 40 million 
passenger vehicles. More than 3.7 
million automotive vehicles were 
produced in India in 2010 (an 
increase of 33.9% (on 2009), making 
the country the second (after China) 
fastest growing automobile market in 
the world in that year. It is projected 
that by 2015, India will exceed every 
major European market including 
Germany, France and the UK in 
automotive sales, making India the 
fourth largest automotive market by 
volume in the world. Through its 
direct subsidiary, incadea supports 
BMW and VW across various projects. 
In 2013, the Group managed to 
strengthen its presence in this 
market, with €0.9 million revenues 
and 3,289 new users. In addition, 
through its channel partners the 
Group benefited from a variety of 
projects in Turkey, the Middle East 
and Egypt, contributing significantly 
to the regional revenues by €2 
million. The goal for 2014 is to 
establish direct presence in both 
Turkey and the Middle East.
Latin America
Mexico and Latin America has 
displayed remarkable economic 
recovery in recent years and the 
automotive industry has been a large 
contributing factor towards that end. 
Today it continues to be a primary 
factor in the region’s economic growth. 
It has become so lucrative that many 
big-name manufacturers have 
expanded into Mexico as part of their 
global developmental strategies, 
investing heavily in their facilities, with 
nothing but highly positive results. 
Through our direct presence in Mexico, 
incadea has established a strategic 
relationship with Mercedes-Benz for 
incadea.myengine. Mexico is 
Mercedes-Benz’s second fastest 
growing major market with a growth 
rate of 29.9%. In addition, the Group 
runs various projects for BMW in 
Columbia, and Paraguay and has 
agreed installations in other leading 
OEMs such as Nissan and Toyota. In 
2013 incadea Mexico achieved €1.2 
million of revenue, with an additional 
€0.85 million of revenue generated 
from incadea Spain and Portugal in 
Latin America region. Currently, we 
are investigating several opportunities 
for further potential market entries in 
Latin America through targeted 
acquisitions and are in initial 
discussions with an OEM in Brazil.
Key Markets Update
Geographical Analysis of Revenues
€000s Change % 31.12.2013 31.12.2012
Europe 59% 19,630  12,383 
Russia (68%) 2,128  6,570 
Asia Pacific 16% 10,118  8,687 
Latin America 69% 2,048  1,211 
Rest of the World 395% 2,090  422 
Total Revenue 23% 36,014  29,273 
Russia and CIS
Russia remains one of the most 
attractive markets in Europe due to 
low light vehicle density and 
advanced age of car fleet while 
Belarus and Ukraine posted the 
highest sales growth in the CIS 
region during 2012. 
In 2013 overall revenue was weaker 
than 2012, mainly due to the delay of 
two budgeted projects related to 
BMW. Management focus more on the 
business expansion and further 
investments in the Russian market to 
secure growth for the Russian 
subsidiary in the next years. 
As a result, incadea continues to 
build a strong position in these 
markets and continuous cooperation 
with the major OEMs of the area. The 
Group works closely with BMW for 
DMS and CRM projects, while first 
pilot projects for Lada and our 
strategic partnership with PSA 
provide a valuable entry point for the 
“mass” market in Russia. We believe 
that our strategic partnership with 
PSA will show in the very near future 
significant growth potential in the 
Russian market. Furthermore, based 
on our progress with Mercedes the 
planning for the first pilots is in 
progress.
incadea Annual Review 2013 31 Taking incadea to the next  
level/People and organisation
incadea is a strong international player 
with a strong multi-cultural diversified 
team present in many geographical 
markets (e.g. incadea HQ in Munich 
has more than 50% international staff 
and more than 17 nationalities) and 
believe our people are one of our 
differentiating factors. One of my 
strongest beliefs is that everything 
can be achieved with the right people 
and the right corporate culture; a 
culture that inspires people for 
innovation, to challenge the 
established and willingly go the extra 
mile. Our key strength is to integrate 
different skills, backgrounds and 
cultural diversity and to perform as 
one team. It was very encouraging to 
hear from new hires from leading 
international companies over the last 
month how impressed they have been 
about the commitment, enthusiasm 
and passion of our people about our 
business. This is a clear sign that we 
are on the right path and this is what 
will bring incadea to the next level. 
Considering the size of our market 
potential and the tremendous growth 
opportunities ahead, my goal and 
commitment is to take incadea, 
together with the incadea leadership 
team, to the next level.
In order to achieve its global strategy, 
the Group has strengthened its 
executive team to further support the 
Group’s growth and geographical 
expansion through key industry hires 
from leading international companies. 
These are:
• Eric Sentuc, VP of Sales and 
Marketing
• Panos Gikas, VP Operations
• Dirk de Beer, VP Strategy and 
Acquisitions
Strategic outlook
Despite challenging market conditions 
and the unprecedented changes to the 
automotive market, we benefited from 
our ability to address our clients’ and 
market’s complex issues and delivered 
tangible results. This has helped us 
extend relationships with leading 
automotive players in the emerging 
markets. 
Our view on this industry is that this 
very fragmented segment will 
consolidate rapidly under the 
pressure of the OEM for globalisation 
and rapid technology changes by 
establishing cloud models. We believe 
that incadea has a great competitive 
advantage to outperform and take 
advantage of this trend to capture a 
large segment of this market over 
future years. We see the three areas 
for a winning position in the fast-
changing industry are broad 
international footprint, innovative 
new products and providing an open 
standard data integration 
environment and large global 
partnerships with leading OEMs.
incadea has driven its global 
expansion at a much higher speed 
then originally forecasted at the time 
of the IPO. We have established 
incadea in Russia, China, India and 
grown incadea to an international 
player with 14 subsidiaries. To 
complete the Asia go-to-market 
strategy incadea will establish its 
footprint in Japan, Korea and 
Australia as it seeks to establish itself 
as the number one DMS provider in 
Asia within the next three years. 
Establishing incadea in the Middle 
East is high on the agenda in 2014 
and, in the next 12 months, 
establishing operations in Turkey will 
also be a focus of the Group in order 
to acknowledge the recent business 
wins in this region and manage the 
growth. One strategic move which 
incadea will undertake in 2015 is the 
market entry into the UK to gain 
significant market share in one of the 
leading European car markets. After 
the expansion in Asia, the focus over 
the next 12-24 months will shift 
towards South America. After a 
successful market entry into Mexico 
and a growing number of projects in 
this region the focus will be on a 
stronger footprint in Central America 
and market entry into Brazil to 
complete the coverage of the BRIC 
markets. Then the only region not 
covered from incadea will be North 
America.
The original business plan at the IPO 
was to win one additional OEM per 
year. By gaining Qoros, Ford Lincoln, 
PSA and Mercedes Mexico in the last 
12 months, incadea’s ambitions in this 
area have significantly increased and 
our target is to have a significant entry 
over the next two to three years in 
every major global OEM, which is an 
ambitious but achievable target.
As a solutions Group our key mission 
is the innovation of new solutions. 
This has been the focus of incadea in 
the past and will be the key focus in 
the future. incadea will accelerate its 
solution portfolio in close cooperation 
with Microsoft by launching new 
mobile sales and aftersales solutions, 
strategic partnerships with highly 
specialised third party providers and 
will establish an automotive cloud app 
store with automotive solutions 
bundling the size of Microsoft and the 
expertise of incadea and its partners. 
A clear focus area for incadea will be 
the complete provision of an 
automotive cloud model and this shift 
to a higher subscription model with an 
increasing level of recurring revenue.
Our ambitions are to go far beyond 
the traditional retail solutions. We at 
incadea want to use the fast-changing 
market environment with the 
increasing influence of cloud solutions 
and internet business models to take 
a leading role in this industry over  
the next few years, supported by 
Microsoft. We know this is an 
ambitious goal but we have proven 
over the last three years that we can 
grow from a solely German Group,  
to one with 14 subsidiaries, including 
in three of the four BRIC markets,  
with a six-fold increase in revenues. 
We believe that the two key success 
factors to achieve our goal are focus 
and competent leadership in our 
segment combined with executing 
business globally. This is the target 
that we always will have in our focus.
Patrick Katenkamp 
Chief Executive Officer
CEO’s 
Letter
continued
32 incadea Annual Review 2013
