 cHaIRman’S Statement
Indago Petroleum Ltd. 04
Indago’s technical and commercial expertise is currently focused on 
a tightly defined geographical area of politically stable countries with 
proven hydrocarbon reserves and an active gas market.
DeAR sHAReHoLDeR,
Financially, 2007 was an outstanding year. After-tax profits were in excess 
of $290 million and we were able to pay an interim special dividend of 
$318 million, equal to 60 pence per old share, whilst retaining sufficient cash 
to take us through the current drilling programme and beyond. I reported 
fully last year on the agreement with RAK Petroleum PCL for the sale of our 
production, development and half our exploration assets and so will not be 
going into detail again here.  suffice it to say, we were one of a relatively 
small number of AIM companies in our sector to pay a cash dividend to its 
shareholders in 2007. 
operationally, the year was one of frustrations. When I reported to you 
in s eptember last year, we had been experiencing a number of technical 
difficulties with the Al Jariya well on the Jebel Hafit prospect in the 
s ultanate of o man, but reasonable progress had been resumed and we 
were looking towards the early part of this year for first indications of the 
value of the prospect.
At the beginning of February, however, the drilling operation penetrated 
a horizon from which salt water emerged at very high temperatures and 
pressures. the problem was very professionally managed by the operator and 
the well brought under control immediately, but the impact on the Jebel Hafit 
project has been profound. It appears likely that we will need to substantially 
redrill the section of the well below 4,300 meters. this will require some 
specialised equipment which is not immediately available and, to avoid an 
Financially, 2007 was an outstanding year...we were one of 
a relatively small number of AIM companies in our sector 
to pay a cash dividend
Operationally, the year was one of frustrations
tim eggar 
Chairman
Report and Financial Statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2007 Indago Petroleum Ltd. 05
expensive stand-by period, we anticipate moving the rig to drill our Zad well 
in Block 47, oman before moving back to complete the Al Jariya well later  
in the year. our analysis of all of the geological and engineering data from  
the Al Jariya well suggests that the prospectivity of the Jebel Hafit prospect 
remains substantially undiminished, certainly at the shuaiba level where 80% 
of the pre-drill reserves are located.
o ur task now is to reshape the strategy of the business going forward. t he 
immediate focus remains onshore oman where we have several leads and 
prospects that we continue to evaluate. However, the upstream oil and gas 
industry is, as ever, in a state of flux and the next year or so is widely predicted 
to be particularly active for corporate and asset transactions involving the small 
company sector. We will be on the lookout for suitable opportunities. 
one sadness of the RAK transaction was that Indago lost the services of 
Peter sadler, John Hurst and almost all the team that had built Indago’s 
original portfolio. their contribution had been invaluable.
I would like to thank our CFo, Martin Groak, who filled in as acting Ceo after 
the RAK transaction until n ovember of last year when David Bremner moved 
over from his non-executive role to become our new Ceo. With a strong team, 
assisted by consultants and advisers, we look forward to completing our 
budgeted programme in oman, maturing additional prospects in our existing 
Blocks and, potentially, pursuing new initiatives during the coming year.
tim eggar
Chairman
Indago Petroleum Limited
The immediate focus remains onshore Oman, where  
we have several leads and prospects that we continue  
to evaluate
Report and Financial Statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2007
