 Dr David Bremner  
Chief executive officer
Chief exeCutive’s report
indago petroleum Ltd. 06
COMPANY HIGHLIGHTS   
Financial Highlights
Profit for the year $294 million
The disposal of the Group’s production and development assets, its cash and 
half of its exploration assets to RAK Petroleum PCL (RAK Petroleum) grossed 
$383 million and produced a profit on disposal of $306 million. This was the 
main contributor to the Group’s net profit of $294 million.
(The results of 2007 cannot readily be compared with those of 2006 (a loss 
of $3.8 million), which were based on revenues of gas condensate and from 
which the Group only benefited in the first quarter of 2007.)
Interim special dividend : $318 million
The Company paid an interim special dividend of 60 pence per share, prior  
to the 1 for 5 share consolidation. This would have been the equivalent of  
£3 per share based on the number of shares in issue now. The repayment of 
this cash to investors substantially de-risked their investment, whilst leaving 
them exposed to the upside potential of the rest of the portfolio.
To achieve this, the Company’s share premium account was cancelled in 
order to generate sufficient distributable reserves. 
The Board is not recommending a final dividend.
Cash and cash equivalents : $41 million
The Group had cash assets of over $41 million at the year end, more than 
sufficient to fund its share of the firm drilling programme. 
Exploration 
Following last year’s disposal of assets, the Group is for the time being a pure 
exploration entity with non-operated interests in three joint ventures with RAK 
Petroleum exploring Blocks 31, 43A and 47 onshore the Sultanate of Oman. 
The operator of all three blocks is RAK Petroleum.
The disposal of the Group’s production and development assets, its cash 
and half of its exploration assets to RAK Petroleum PCL (RAK Petroleum) 
grossed $383 million and produced a profit on disposal of $306 million. 
This was the main contributor to the Group’s net profit of $294 million.
Interim special dividend: $318 million. The repayment of this 
cash to investors substantially de-risked their investment
report and financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2007 Indago Petroleum Ltd. 07
Hawamel
Hawamel, on the Izz prospect in Block 47, was drilled at the end of 2006 
and following rather inconclusive results, decisions on next steps there 
have been deferred. t he porosity and permeability of the Cretaceous 
carbonate reservoirs were poor, although gas was inferred and one portion 
of the reservoir did show some promise in terms of possible gas saturation. 
Possible courses of action include drilling an underbalanced, horizontal leg 
from the existing wellbore through the encountered formations. Interestingly, 
this approach was used recently in an adjacent block with an acceptable 
degree of success.
the cost implications have been assessed and although initial indications 
were that it would be at a similar cost to a conventional testing programme, 
the results of the tendering process would suggest something considerably 
higher. At the moment it is not a priority for the joint venture.  the next well in 
the programme, after Al Jariya-1, is the Zad well on the Adam prospect, also 
in Block 47. A success at Adam could enhance the potential value of Izz.
Al Jariya
Most of 2007 was taken up with the drilling at Jebel Hafit. In January 2007, 
we spudded the Al Jariya-1 well, to be drilled to a depth of approximately 
5,900 metres. significant geological and mechanical challenges were 
encountered at virtually every stage, including requiring two sidetracks at 
relatively shallow depth. After a year of drilling, the operation had reached 
5,100 metres. Just beyond this depth, a strong flow of high-temperature, 
high-pressure salt water with high levels of carbon dioxide and some gas was 
encountered. the well was always considered to be a potentially difficult, very 
high pressure, high temperature project and with this in mind we had a highly 
experienced well control team at the wellsite as the well was drilled deeper. 
When the well control incident occurred on February 2nd of this year, this team 
was able to react immediately and ensure the incident did not get out of hand.
The next well in the programme is the Zad well on the 
Adam prospect in block 47. A success at Adam could 
enhance the potential value of Izz
Report and Financial Statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2007 cHIeF executIve’S RePoRt continued
Indago Petroleum Ltd. 08
Al Jariya (continued)
At the time of writing the operator is continuing attempts to rehabilitate the 
well and it looks as though the way forward will be to abandon and cement 
the open hole section of the well with cement extending up inside the casing 
to about 4,300 meters. A window will then be cut in the casing at about 
that depth and the well will be sidetracked and, hopefully, the two reservoir 
objectives penetrated in the new hole. Discussions are continuing but it 
appears likely that at least a significant portion of the cost of the well control 
and remediation will be covered by the joint venture’s well control insurance.
one source of disappointment is that the sidetrack and substantial redrill of 
the lower portion of the well will require specialised equipment which is not 
readily available. the likely outcome of this is that the most prudent course 
of action will be to suspend the Al Jariya well after cementing back and 
moving the nabors 103 rig off Jebel Hafit and on to the Zad well on the Adam 
Prospect. All being well we would hope to be spudding Zad during May and 
be back on Al Jariya during the 4th quarter 2008.
Zad
the Zad well on the Adam prospect in Block 47 is geologically very different 
to (and potentially much larger than) the nearby Izz prospect, where we were 
targetting Cretaceous age carbonates with mainly dry gas, at a depth of  
1,900 metres.  Zad is targeting Cambrian age sandstones, mainly gas and  
gas condensate, at a depth of 4,200 metres.
As discussed above, the current expectation is that Zad will spud towards the 
summer of 2008 and is forecast to take some 90 days to reach total depth. It 
is a more straightforward drilling proposition than at Jebel Hafit and we would 
certainly hope for a more routine operation. 
the drilling of Zad and the subsequent conclusion of the Al Jariya well will 
complete the current firm drilling programme.
All being well, we would hope to be spudding Zad  
during May 2008
Report and Financial Statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2007 Indago Petroleum Ltd. 09
Outlook
The seismic work being done over the three exploration blocks is nearing 
its conclusion and there are significant leads to be analysed further. New 2D 
seismic acquired during late 2006 and early 2007 has allowed us to define 
better the Dham, Sadood and Kabshat leads and prospects in Block 47, the 
Jebel Wa’bah lead in Block 31 and the Kahal structure in Block 43A.
Meanwhile, we are evaluating a number of new opportunities for joint ventures 
in the general area of the Middle East, North Africa and the Caspian. We hope 
to expand the Company’s exploration portfolio by bringing one or two of 
these opportunities to fruition over the next few months.
We are very aware of the shortage of investment funds in the UK market at 
this moment, but we have a pool of cash to take us through 2009, by which 
time our current exploration programme is expected to have completed 
and other initiatives may have come to fruition. While we determine the 
long term requirements of Indago, we have adopted a policy of outsourcing 
our technical and legal support. This has given us access to some first 
class professional resources, whilst retaining significant flexibility over our 
overhead costs. 
We are, therefore, developing the strategy to move forward. A success at 
any of the wells in our current programme would advance that strategy very 
rapidly. In the meantime, we have the resources to be patient.
Dr David Bremner
Chief executive officer
We are evaluating a number of opportunities for joint 
ventures in the general area of the Middle East,  
North Africa and the Caspian
Report and Financial Statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2007
