 Cluff Gold plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 06
Company Overview
Chairman’s Statement
2010 was a year of consolidation, marked 
by a strengthening in our cash position.  
This allows us to properly develop our
exploration extrategy.
Since my last report I have stepped down as Chief Executive in
favour of Peter Spivey. This was effective from January 1st this
year and followed after Peter Spivey had served as Chief
Operating Officer of the Company for over a year. Apart from now
being thoroughly familiar with every aspect of our business, he is
based in West Africa which is where your board believes the Chief
Executive needs to be. I remain as Chairman based in London.
One of the governing reasons which supported Mr Spivey’s
welcome decision to join this Company was his belief in the
potential of the Baomahun project in Sierra Leone. He is now
charged with the task of superintending the transition of this gold
deposit into a producing mine and his experience and leadership
will be absolutely fundamental to attaining that objective. One of
the crucial demands which a development of this scale makes is
for additional management and Peter Spivey and Pete Gardner,
our Finance Director, are augmenting their respective teams.
Your Company has a clear goal of achieving production of 250,000
to 300,000 ounces per year. It is our intention that Cluff Gold will
attain this target as an independent entity through the development
of its flagship Baomahun project. This goal will move closer to
reality following the completion of the Baomahun feasibility study
later this year.
Whilst our undoubted priority is the development of Baomahun we
remain committed to our exploration remit which now encompasses
licences in Mali, Burkina Faso and Côte d’Ivoire in addition to
Sierra Leone. We operate the Kalsaka mine and have a vigorous
programme of drilling there with a view to extending the life of this
mine. We have further exploration licences, awarded to us in 2010,
in Burkina Faso and our exploration team has begun the
exploratory process on those licences.
Possibly our most prospective exploration ground is at Angovia in
the Côte d’Ivoire. As I write, the small mine at Angovia – which
produced gold from an oxide deposit – is on care and maintenance
following the interruption of supplies resulting from the recent
unrest in that country. However, there exists an underlying sulphide
deposit at Angovia, which is presently estimated to contain an
initial measured and indicated resource of 292,000 ounces
(169,000 ounces measured at 1.5g/t Au and 123,000 ounces
indicated at 1.7g/t Au). We believe that the sulphide potential 
at Angovia is significant and are planning a major exploration
programme with a view to developing a more substantial mine
should results warrant.
The location of a major hydroelectric plant within five kilometres 
of Angovia provides the added benefit of low power costs should
a mine be developed.
As a result of our high level of exploration activity and expenditure,
the Chief Executive is looking to establish a larger geology
department to ensure the Company capitalises on the momentum
gained in 2010.
There is no gainsaying that large parts of the African Continent are
currently in a condition which renders cogent analysis both difficult
and dangerous. On the one hand West Africa remains geologically
speaking one of the most prospective areas in the world. This is
complemented by Governments which, in the main, are well aware
of and responsive to the importance of foreign investment and
which conduct their affairs within the framework of English or
French law. On the other hand the scourge of inflation, particularly
food price inflation, and the evidence of the possibility of regime
change being a solution has taken hold amongst the population of
various countries. We had direct experience of this recently in the
Côte d’Ivoire although the situation there is evidently improving.
There have also been disturbances in Burkina Faso although our
operations have not been affected. But the atmosphere in the
Middle East and larger parts of Africa remains febrile. My
colleagues and I feel that we must be alert to extending our
activities to other countries in the region and we are examining
various possibilities now. We also take heart from our collective
experience of working in Africa for many years – although every
situation is unique, there is no substitute for knowledge and
familiarity in this type of environment.
To end on a positive note, notwithstanding the recent volatility, the
price of gold has continued to strengthen since my last report, and
my view is that a robust price environment will remain for the
foreseeable future. With high levels of both personal and public
debt throughout the developed world, inflation is in fact the only
clear path to a reduction in absolute terms. Governments around
the world are acting to maintain the supply of money, creating a
fertile environment for the price of all commodities, not least gold.
This will not only be reflected in our cash flow but will strengthen
the underlying value of our business.
J.G. Cluff
Chairman
16 May 2011
