 Cluff Gold plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 07
Company Overview
Chief Executive’s 
Statement
I believe that the Baomahun project has the
potential to be world class. I look forward to
drawing on my experience to help bring
Baomahun to profitable production.
It is a pleasure to present this, my first report, as Chief Executive
of Cluff Gold plc. Although the period presented pre-dates my
elevation to Chief Executive, I believe it is important that this report
clearly sets out our strategy for the successful development of our
assets, which is very much my main area of focus.
The original decision to join Cluff Gold was an easy one, due to
my belief in the strength of the Company’s assets. In particular, 
I believe that the Baomahun project has the potential to be world
class, and I was drawn to the parallels in respect of its stage of
development with other projects on which I have worked, the
experience from which will help bring it to profitable fruition.
The evolution from an explorer to a developer can be difficult 
for many companies. The skills required to manage a successful
exploration project are often quite different from those required 
for successful development. During the exploration stage, strategy
is dependent on not only the last set of results, but also the next.
The ability to quickly evolve plans in light of recent data is the
most important of all. By comparison, once an ore body is
defined, the key to successful development is putting in place 
the correct systems and procedures to manage the operation 
in an efficient and orderly manner.
When I first arrived at Cluff Gold, a number of the management
systems used at the Company’s two operating mines were
relatively under-developed. As Chief Operating Officer my first task
was to ensure that these systems evolved quickly to improve
operational efficiency. One such example was supply chain and
inventory management. A new management system has been put
in place at both the Kalsaka and Angovia mines to ensure that
critical spare parts are always available, and regular consumables
are purchased from the most appropriate supplier at the right time.
It is these day-to-day operating systems that make the difference
between an efficient, profitable mine, and one that struggles to
maintain production.
In terms of the Company’s development to a mid-tier producer 
we are now at a pivotal time. The completion of the definitive
Baomahun feasibility study due in Q3 2011 is only the first step 
in the value realisation from that project. We are now starting to
focus on building the team that can help develop an efficient and
profitable mine. Whilst resources are central to the value creation
from a project, the importance of having the right team in place
from the outset cannot be underestimated.
In terms of our broader strategy, I must stress the importance of
exploration. Due to our strengthened balance sheet we now have
the funds to allow our resource base to grow across all assets. 
As an unhedged producer of over 70,000 ounces per annum in
Burkina Faso, given the current gold price environment, we will
also generate cash flow during 2011 to continue to meet these
goals. We are therefore working to strengthen our exploration
teams to ensure that we have the right personnel in place to
deliver on the potential of all our assets.
In my opinion Cluff Gold has an almost unique position. 
As a producing gold miner we are very different to earlier stage
exploration companies: not only do we generate the funds
internally for our exploration programmes, we also have personnel
across the Group who understand only too well what is required to
successfully run a producing gold mine – and who understand the
difficulties in developing a mine. By comparison, what sets us
apart from other producing companies is the enormous potential
for growth at all of our assets.
Our strategy is a simple one: 
• At Baomahun, we aim to build a mine producing in excess 
of 150,000 ounces of gold per annum, with a view to an early
expansion should exploration results along strike warrant. 
We are also reviewing a number of cost optimisation strategies
that could deliver a significant cost benefit. 
• At the Kalsaka mine we aim to extend the oxide life of the
existing heap leach operation whilst exploring the deeper
sulphide potential. 
• At Angovia, we aim to focus primarily on the sulphide
potential, adding to the resources delineated to date. 
Together with our new exploration properties in Burkina Faso 
and Mali, I remain convinced that the Company has the asset
base required to develop into a mid-tier producer. I look forward 
to reporting on our progress against these goals in the future.
Peter Spivey
Chief Executive Officer
16 May 2011
