 I founded Cluff Gold in 2003, the fourth in 
a series of natural resource companies
commencing with Cluff Oil in 1972. The others
were acquired by third parties when they had
become established producers of oil or gold.
As Cluff Gold seeks to establish itself as a 
mid-tier producer, I have come to the
conclusion that the Company now requires 
a strengthening of its executive team with an
Executive Chairman based in London, since
our Chief Executive is quite properly based in
West Africa. 
I am pleased to have secured an Executive
Chairman with exceptional technical and
financial knowledge and experience to replace
me. I look forward to working with the entire
executive team as a consultant over the next
12 months during a critical phase of
development across our asset base.
The company has a portfolio of excellent
production, development and exploration
assets distributed through four West African
countries and I, with the considerable help and
support from my fellow directors, have
negotiated the acquisition of these properties
and raised the necessary capital to advance
them. I have put in place a management team
possessed not only of the appropriate
disciplines but also with the collaborative
temperament essential for a good team. I leave
the company with a strong, debt free balance
sheet. I can assure shareholders that our team
of mostly African engineers, mine managers
and geologists is of the highest calibre. I firmly
believe the stage is set for the Company to
add significant value to its entire asset base
over the next few years, and intend to remain
invested to capitalise on that growth.
Over the past thirty five years I have led
teams, which variously have discovered an
offshore oil field in the North Sea; discovered
and brought into production numerous gas
fields in the USA, Canada and Australia;
discovered and developed five gold mines in
Zimbabwe, Ghana, Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire
and Sierra Leone; and discovered what is now
the Geita Mine in Tanzania, the largest gold
discovery in Africa for many years. I now feel
the entrepreneurial urge to continue this
process and look forward to leading another
team at a new natural resource company
charged with making more discoveries. 
I am excited at resuming the entrepreneurial
challenge of building another company, safe 
in the knowledge that I leave Cluff Gold in an
exciting position of future growth with strong
operational hands to manage the next phase
of its development.
JG Cluff
Non-Executive Chairman
27 April 2012
Cluff Gold plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Company Overview
04
Chairman’s Statement
I firmly believe the stage is set for the Company to add
significant value to its entire asset base over the next few years,
and intend to remain invested to capitalise on that growth.
J.G. Cluff 
Non-Executive Chairman
