 Chief Executive’s Review
Over the last year we have invested in the infrastructure required to generate and
support business in our various market sectors. We have continued the process of
establishing our technology in our key markets and commenced the process of creating
wider market access.
Industrial solutions
Our technology continues to become accepted for many critical temperature
applications in the process control sector. However, the rate of sales increase has been
affected by the general capital investment climate in the UK, resulting in a slower than
projected take up. We are building on the successful trials work completed during the
year and our products have become a preferred solution for a growing number of
companies operating in food processing and maritime cargo vessels. 
We commenced a programme of identifying and appointing distributors and
representatives that will expand our access to a broader industrial market. In the
second half of the year we appointed a UK group to represent Inditherm in the general
industrial market and European distributors in Finland and Italy. This programme will
continue as a priority to provide a platform of increased market access to support
continued growth.
Medical products
During the year we redesigned the control unit for the original range of operating
theatre products to provide greater capability and to enable access to the international
market. Pegasus launched the new unit in the UK in October 2002 with plans to
establish an international presence in 2003. Following increased demand for our
products in the first quarter of 2002, sales slowed in the remainder of the year in
anticipation of the new unit launch. 
Product development for Pegasus has been focused on the existing range of products, with
future developments of wound dressing and other applications under review for 2003.
In December 2002, a new range of physiotherapy products was launched under the
brand name Speedheat. Early indications are that this range is proving to be of benefit
to the professional sporting community in the treatment of muscle injuries and
improving the recovery time of injured players. 
Custom products
Our Custom Products group has developed new innovative solutions that have been
brought to market during the year. The development programme for steering wheels has
been completed, with initial production orders being received in the first quarter of 2003,
in line with the time scale reported last year. Whilst at a low volume, this initial production
platform provides the baseline design that can be used in future vehicle production.
A distribution and exclusivity agreement with Laminar Medica commenced in October
2002. Initial production quantities have been completed enabling Laminar Medica to
launch the ActivHeat range of heated pharmaceutical containers. Although the
products have only recently been launched, the indications are that production
requirements will become more evenly spread from mid 2003.
5 6
The range of heated inserts used for pizza delivery bags has been extended to cover
various units for a wide range of take-away food delivery systems. Market access has
been limited to trials by a number of major companies in the home delivery market.
Production requirements are now being received for both pizza and curry bag inserts,
with a new range of home use products planned for launch  in  the second quarter of 2003.
In November 2002, we established Inditherm Construction Ltd which will be
responsible for completing the development and market exploitation of Inditherm for
various concrete curing applications. Working in conjunction with Sheffield Hallam
University, School of Construction, a programme has already commenced to research
and develop enhanced methods of controlling the concrete curing process. Initial
results have been very encouraging, although it is not expected that we will have
products to market until 2004. 
Future development
After a demanding year, where the manufacturing facility has been relocated, staff
levels increased and our operating systems brought up to the level required to support
future growth, we are looking forward to a period of expansion and realisation of
potential business. 
In the industrial sector we look forward to further expanding our access to both
national and international markets. We will remain focused on establishing our
technology as the preferred alternative to traditional solutions, building on the
growing acceptance of our capability within major industrial groups. During 2003, we
will undertake product developments that open up new markets that require
hazardous area approval and higher operating temperatures.
We will continue to work closely with Pegasus to accelerate growth within the
international medical market for existing products and to develop new products.
Expansion into Europe and the USA will be the priority for the relaunched operating
theatre range. We expect Pegasus to develop the Speedheat range for use in hospitals
and residential care homes. 
Custom Products will concentrate on the three principal product ranges brought to
market over the last twelve months, working with our partners to increase throughput
and establish the Inditherm technology within these fields. We will continue to explore
new opportunities as they arise, with a view to developing new products that have the
potential for high returns in future years.  
Since taking the position of Chief Executive in October 2002, my focus has been to
build on the work started by Pat O’Grady, to establish Inditherm as the preferred
supplier in our core markets. We have many opportunities and challenges ahead of us
as we look forward with confidence that Inditherm will start to realise its full potential.
COLIN TARRY
Chief Executive
20 March 2003
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
INDITHERM plc
