 3
Chairman’s Statement
Introduction
In my first report to you a year ago I stated that following the Company’s flotation on
AIM in December 2001 the Board’s short term goals were to progress the commercial
growth of the business, expand our product range and develop and strengthen our
relationships with key customers. Though our initial rate of expansion was slowed
during 2002 by the general climate for capital equipment investment in the UK, I am
very pleased to be able to report to you now that we have made good progress in each
of the above areas. 
Results for the year 
Turnover for the year increased overall by 43% to £683,000 (2001: £477,000). After
adjusting for one-off exclusivity payments included within both years, product sales
increased by 61%. The level of administrative expenses necessarily committed to
develop the business resulted in an operating loss of £781,000 for the year (2001: loss
£235,000) and after net interest income of £42,000 (2001: net cost £21,000) the loss before
tax was £739,000 (2001: loss £256,000). Loss per share was 6.8 pence (2001: loss
3.0 pence).
As a result of the loss for the year, together with capital investment in our new
premises, the year end net cash balance reduced to £0.90 million (2001: £2.12 million).
Dividends
Last year I reported the Board’s intention to devote the Company’s financial resources
to business development and product range expansion. This intention, which the
Board believes to be in the shareholders’ best interests, has been pursued during 2002
and will continue for the foreseeable future. Therefore the Board still does not expect
to declare a dividend during the Company’s continuing formative period.
Management
As announced in September 2002, as part of our succession planning Colin Tarry,
formerly Managing Director, took the role of Chief Executive as from 1 October 2002.
Pat O’Grady, the founder of the Company, remains as an executive director in a part-
time capacity, providing guidance, support and technical advice to the Board during
the medium term.
At managerial level, some restructuring and reorganisation of responsibilities within
sales, engineering and production has been implemented to facilitate growth. 
Employees
Given the very substantial increase in enquiry and quotation levels, we have taken on
additional resource to meet our medium term requirement. Though still small, our
workforce has doubled in numbers during the year. In our formative period much work
has been put into setting up systems and procedures to establish ourselves for the future.
On behalf of the Board I thank all our staff most sincerely for their sustained support. 4
Outlook
Though trading patterns are still likely to be somewhat erratic until the second half of
this year, we are now seeing an encouraging growth in enquiries in each of our target
markets, both in the UK and overseas. We have also been improving our
manufacturing efficiency and exercising stringent controls on our cost base to
maximise our opportunity to move into profitable operation.
In the Industrial market the Inditherm product is now receiving considerably more
customer enquiries, albeit that the nature of the business means that it is often several
months before these can be converted into orders. Our sales and marketing activity for
Industrial products now has the additional support of a team of UK agents and two
European distributors, with further distributors still being sought.
Following the launch of our new control unit in September 2002, our Medical business
has seen the return of heated mattress sales via Pegasus, who are now also actively
promoting the Inditherm medical product range in Europe.
Custom products has received the first full production orders for steering wheel
inserts, while our customers for pizza bag and pharmaceutical transportation inserts
are currently negotiating new supply contracts for their products.
The potential for the year ahead appears encouraging, with requests for quotations on
a substantial volume of work. The result in the short term will be dependent upon the
rate at which these quotes can be converted into production orders.
MARK ABRAHAMS
Chairman
20 March 2003
Chairman’s Statement (continued)
INDITHERM plc
