 5
Introduction
Last year saw significant changes in our products, access to market and organisation.
The restructuring has been necessary to establish the platform to exploit our
technology and provide a firm basis for growth in the future. The fund raising in
December will enable our core activities of Industrial and Medical to grow into
sustainable business units, whilst continuing the development of new applications to
provide a broader market base for the longer term.
Industrial solutions
Sales of industrial products increased by 116% over the previous year as a result of the
stronger performance in the second half of the year. The technology has now been
accepted in a wide range of industries for both process and storage applications. Our
sales team has been strengthened further in the last quarter to provide greater selling
resource for the UK market.
During the year we have established the technology for use on large storage vessels
used in both internal and external applications. We have continued to build our
product portfolio with the addition of certification for zone 2 hazardous areas and the
development of under soil heating systems for sports applications.
Although we are making strong progress in the industrial sector, the conversion time
between enquiry and orders remains long, due to the investment climate for capital
equipment. By broadening our customer and application base we will continue to
grow the level of opportunities to support a sustainable business.
Medical products
Medical sales reduced significantly as a result of distributor issues during 2003. As
reported in our interim results, we have renegotiated the distributor arrangements,
returning access of the market to the Company. In the last quarter we commenced the
task of re-establishing ourselves in the market with our range of patient warming
products.
Backed by a growing body of clinical evidence that supports the use of our technology,
we are starting to secure business in the UK market. The products are being accepted
as a viable alternative to traditional means of patient warming and will benefit from
the general trend away from disposable products on the grounds of hygiene and cost.
Custom products
Sales continue to make steady progress. All products in the group are now in
production, albeit at low levels, as our partners establish their products in the
respective markets of automotive, pharmaceutical and food delivery systems.
Development of new applications has been slowed to enable our in house resources to
concentrate on the Industrial and Medical sectors.
Chief Executive’s Review 6
INDITHERM plc
Outlook
We will continue to focus on our core activities of industrial and medical, investing in
both business units to accelerate growth and to strengthen the management and sales
teams. They will be supported by a wider marketing effort to increase our profile and
demand.
Whilst our priorities lay with industrial and medical, further development in the
custom and construction groups will be continued on a reactive basis.
The demands of large projects, such as the under soil pitch heating, will enable us to
improve our manufacturing techniques in order to yield greater production
efficiencies. We will continue to make small capital investments in our production
facility to enable the scaling up of the manufacturing process to meet increased
demand.
We look forward to the challenges of growth and establishing Inditherm at the
forefront of our markets. This year will see the business take significant strides forward
in exploiting our technology.
COLIN TARRY
Chief Executive
24 March 2004
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
