 4
INDITHERM plc
Introduction
Following the successful fund-raising in 2003, Inditherm has made considerable
progress on several fronts. Most significantly, we entered the football pitch heating
market with two major contracts for Chelsea Football Club and Falkirk Community
Stadium.  Both installations represented challenges as we gained technical experience.
However, these projects are now fully operational and provide a platform for future
growth.  The concentration of resource on the football pitch market and particularly the
two projects undertaken, diverted resources away from other activities and resulted in
slower sales growth than originally anticipated.
Good progress was made by the Medical business with the establishment of direct
sales in the UK and a number of overeas distributors.
During the year we used our financial resources to expand our skills base, particularly
on the commercial front. This has given rise to an increased cost base which resulted in
a large loss for the year.
Results for the Year
Turnover for the year increased by 159% to £1,598k (2003: £616k), mainly due to the
large Chelsea contract, worth £775k.  Unlike previous years, we did not see a sharp
increase in Industrial orders during the last quarter, with many potential prospects
being delayed into 2005.  I am pleased to report that some of these have now borne
fruit.  We also moved into the water utilities market, where Inditherm’s solution offers
significant benefits and energy savings over alternative technologies. Medical sales
increased in the second half, mainly due to the strengthening of the Medical
management and sales team.
The cost base was increased through the addition of key people aimed at promoting
sales, resulting in an operating loss of £1,176k before exceptional items (2003: £684k).
After exceptional costs of £328k, relating to the termination of the Pegasus Distribution
Agreement, a provision for a doubtful debt and net interest income of £182k (2003:
£16k), the pre-tax loss was £1,306k (2003: £786k).
The year end cash balance was £3,590k (2003: £5,047k).
Dividends
As stated in previous years, the Board does not expect to declare a dividend during the
Company’s continuing formative period.
Management
In 2004 we took significant strides to strengthen management with the appointment of
Richard Harpum as Chief Executive. Richard was previously President of ABB
Metering and has also held senior positions in FKI Babcock and GEC. Since this
appointment, Colin Tarry has been Business Development and Technical Director but
resigned as a Director on the 23rd March 2005. He will be leaving the company later
this year to pursue other interests. He will be available to the company in respect of the
technology and has signed a confidentiality agreement.
Chairman’s Statement 5
Pat O’Grady retired as a Director of the Company and has agreed to an exclusive long-
term consultancy in respect of Inditherm technology.
I would like to thank both Pat and Colin for their efforts in the formative years of the
Company.
In recent weeks the team has been strengthened with three key appointments: a
Divisional Director responsible for the Medical business; a Technical Manager and a
Projects Director who between them will undertake Colin Tarry’s work.
Employees
We continue to invest in and expand our workforce to ensure that we have the
appropriate skills with which to grow the business. The workforce is extremely flexible
and has worked very hard during the year to deal with significant fluctuations in
demand, especially during the manufacture and installation of the heating pads for the
Chelsea contract.  On behalf of the Board, I thank all our staff members most sincerely
for their dedication.
Operations & Strategy
The concentration of resource on the football pitch projects and future opportunities
was considerable.  Whilst this showed positive results with significant future potential,
the order flow from other markets was disappointing. This has highlighted the need to
focus on market segments where our value proposition is most compelling.
Accordingly, we have reshaped the sales force to target certain parts of the Industrial
market, whilst increasing resources aimed at selling into the Medical market.  This new
strategy is expected to take six to twelve months to demonstrate the significant
potential that we believe is offered by Inditherm technology in these markets.
Outlook
Effort is now being focused on the pitch heating, medical, water utility and
construction markets, where we continue to see major potential.  Significantly, we have
recently won our first order for an accelerated concrete curing heating system, where
we are demonstrating the substantial cost savings derived from using Inditherm
technology.  We believe this could be a platform for significant growth.
The water utility market is another area where we can demonstrate the value of
Inditherm technology and the planned capital spend in that industry over the next four
years represents a new opportunity.
The year has started with volumes well ahead of last year, albeit that this represents
slower growth than planned.  Much work has been undertaken to establish the new
strategy which we believe will begin to show benefits from the second half of this year.
MARK ABRAHAMS
Chairman
24 March 2005
Chairman’s Statement (continued)
