 1
Based near Rotherham, South Yorkshire, Inditherm plc designs, manufactures and installs heating
solutions using the Company’s innovative, patented, low voltage, carbon-based conductive
polymer technology (CPT).  This provides a flexible heating material that can be fitted over a wide
variety of shapes, as well as laid out flat to heat large areas from above or below. Running from a
low voltage (6V to 50V) dc or ac power supply, it can reach temperatures of up to 120°C.
Applications for the technology are numerous but the Company is focusing on selected
applications and market areas where there are perceived to be significant growth opportunities.
These include pitch heating, medical (patient warming), utility water and waste water treatment
plants, tanks and concrete curing.  Inditherm already has an established track record in industrial
process industries, such as confectionary , food and chemicals, where CPT is ideal for heating pipes,
tanks, valves and pumps. 
Our Vision
To be perceived as the best in the world in our chosen markets.
Our Values
We believe in….
● having total integrity in all we do
● delighting our customers
● treating others with dignity and respect
● teamwork
● working professionally and delivering exceptional quality.
1
INDITHERM at a glance The Industrial Division specialises in providing heating solutions for critical temperature
management and frost protection for pipelines, portable storage containers, tanks, valves and
pumps. The principal markets include confectionary, food, chemical processing and water utilities.
Inditherm’s technology is ideal for wrapping around complex shapes, as well as for providing heat
over large, flat areas.
The Medical Division specialises in warming solutions to prevent hypothermia and heat therapy
systems for the treatment of injuries and wounds. Patient warming products are primarily used in
operating theatres, recovery and intensive care, and offer improved performance, combined with
significant cost savings over traditional technologies.
Sports pitch heating has been moved into the Construction Division and provides a solid state
solution for preventing frost and also for promoting grass growth. Not only is the Inditherm
system far more reliable than traditional mechanical systems, it uses only about 25% of the energy.
Working in conjunction with Sheffield Hallam University, the Division is also in the process of
developing solutions to accelerate concrete curing, along with concrete infrastructure heating and
frost protection solutions.
The Custom Division has two main roles: providing heating solutions for third party partners to
incorporate into existing or new end user products, and as the seedbed for new major product
lines that are then taken on by other Inditherm Divisions.
2
INDITHERM at a glance
