 6
INDITHERM plc
Introduction
2004 was a period of intense change for Inditherm, with the main challenge being to
design, manufacture and install the pitch heating systems at Chelsea Football Club’s
training ground and at Falkirk Community Stadium.  Both projects were successfully
completed, albeit with some major challenges to overcome en route.  There was little
growth in the core industrial business, and a disappointing final quarter, which has
traditionally been strong.  However, we have found new industrial applications in the
water utilities market, where our technology offers significant benefits over alternative
heating solutions and is being well-received by the market. 
Following the termination of an exclusive agreement with a third party distributor in
2003, we effectively had to re-build our Medical business. We have put in place new
management and a sales team and achieved a 255% increase in sales over the previous
year.  
Following two years of joint development with Sheffield Hallam University, our
Construction business started to generate orders in 2005.
Strategy
Towards the end of the year, a full review of the business and its strategy was
undertaken and a number of key conclusions drawn from this review:
● Because of the compelling attraction of the Inditherm conductive polymer
technology (CPT), the number of potential applications can be overwhelming. It is
therefore vital to identify and focus on only those applications where there is a
clear market opportunity, such as sports pitch heating, water utilities and medical. 
● Until now, the industrial business has adopted a custom design approach to each
application. However, it is clear that there are significant opportunities for
standardisation, which will not only reduce costs, but make it easier to establish
new market channels and distributors both in the UK an overseas. 
● Although Inditherm is not always the most price competitive solution in the
market, the operational benefits and energy savings can lead to significant lifetime
cost savings compared to other technologies. 
● There is room for improvement in the way we execute projects and customer
contracts.
● Lack of product development and other resources mean that our ability to exploit
fully our CPT technology in the short term is resource limited.  Until we can afford
to build the team, we therefore need to concentrate on those areas that will bring
the quickest return for the minimum effort.
The business strategy was revised to position ourselves in markets and applications
where we can achieve rapid growth, without having to add significant resources or
spend significant time developing new applications or markets.  A detailed analysis
identified the following as the key areas of focus for the next two years:
● Industrial solutions, but with a shift in focus to standard products, such as mobile
and static tanks, and on key accounts where our technology is already well
accepted, UK investment remains robust and the contracts are generally larger.  
Chief Executive’s Review 7
● UK water utilities, where we have a clear competitive advantage and the
opportunity to offer more standard products. 
● Medical, notably in heated mattresses for patient warming, both in the UK and
overseas.  Having standard products makes exporting attractive.
● Sports pitch heating, both in the UK and Europe, and where the Inditherm
solution offers an improved solution and significant energy savings over
traditional hot water and cable systems.  
● Construction, notably in accelerating concrete curing.
Our other key strategies are to enhance operational excellence, develop new markets,
especially for standard products at home and overseas, and to continue to train and
develop our people. 
In summary, these applications generally require heating over often large, flat areas,
where other technologies are substantially less effective.
Industrial Solutions
Sales of Industrial products increased by 8% over 2003, partly as a result of the move
into the water utilities market in the second half.  The final quarter, normally strong in
the confectionary and food sectors, was disappointing, with low levels of orders
received.  We are strengthening the industrial sales organisation and streamlining our
selling processes, so as to improve performance in 2005.   
The recent move into water utilities is expected to enable us to take advantage in the
second half of 2005 of the new AMP4 spending round that starts in April 2005.  We
have developed solutions that are significantly superior to traditional approaches, not
only in the mode of operation but also in energy savings.   The main areas are in
heating chemical dosing lines and chemical tanks, and supplying removable heated or
insulated jackets for pumps, valves and pipework. 
Medical
Medical sales increased by 255%, with the recruitment of a new sales team and a
Commercial Director, who has since been promoted to Divisional Director.  Sales in
previous years were mainly to our sole distributor, with whom we ended our exclusive
arrangement towards the end of 2003. This has necessitated developing market
channels and demonstrating to hospitals that the Inditherm patient warming solution
has significant advantages over traditional air warming and other technologies. 
Although the medical industry is inherently conservative, there has been significant
interest in the Inditherm heated mattresses, not only because clinical trials have shown
that patient warming improves recovery, but also that Inditherm is a superior solution.
In addition, hospitals find that they can get a payback in about 6 months using
Inditherm, compared to other systems that use disposable products. Although we see
Medical as a core part of our business, market inertia means that it will take time to
grow this business sector to its full potential. 
Good progress was made in establishing new overseas distributorships, which we
expect will lead to significant sales growth in 2005. 
Chief Executive’s Review (continued) 8
Pitch Heating 
The main growth in the business in 2004 came from the two contracts at Falkirk
Community Stadium and Chelsea Football Club’s training grounds in Surrey.  These
have enabled us to prove that Inditherm is a superior technology to established
techniques in a number of ways.  Firstly, with no moving parts, the system is inherently
reliable compared to mechanical solutions. In addition, the control system gives
groundsmen the ability to manage temperatures in different zones of the pitch. We have
also seen improved grass growth. Finally, the energy savings are significant, typically
being 75% better than alternatives; our measurements show that during the winter
months, savings can be substantial. 
Although all pitch heating systems are likely to be bespoke, these two projects have not
only proved that the concept works but have also given us a significant level of data and
expertise in this application.  There is now significant interest from several clubs in the
UK and Europe, who are planning to install pitch heating systems during the next two
years and who are recognising the advantages that Inditherm offers over alternative
systems.
Construction
Throughout the year we continued to work with the Centre for Infrastructure
Management at Sheffield Hallam University on heating applications associated with
concrete and other areas in the construction industry, notably railway infrastructure.
There are a number of avenues of research taking place, notably in accelerating concrete
curing, and embedding Inditherm polymer within concrete for infrastructure warming.  
During early 2005, we started to receive orders for trials for concrete curing systems and
these should enable us to gather data on how strong a value proposition the Inditherm
solution is.  We are also carrying out trials in a number of railway-related applications.
Custom Products
In the past, Custom products have absorbed significant development effort, and some
have graduated to new business lines; the notable examples in 2004 were pitch heating
and concrete curing.  Sales of food heating bags and other products have progressed
during the year but we are limiting ongoing development efforts, concentrating on
those products that offer rapid returns over the next two years.   
We are being ruthless in assessing new market “opportunities”. However, it is important
to analyse these carefully up front to ensure that we do not miss any that can result in
quick wins. 
Future Developments
The key activities over the coming months will be to exploit our CPT technology in
those areas where we perceive there to be the greatest growth potential. Considerable
efforts are being put into water utilities ahead of the AMP 4 spending round, which
starts in April.  Other Industrial sales will focus on key accounts, larger projects and
more standard products.  
INDITHERM plc
Chief Executive’s Review (continued) 9
We anticipate steady pitch heating sales in 2005 to some well-known clubs and as a new
entrant in this market, we will also use the year to consolidate our reputation. The
prospects for 2006 are encouraging, as we are already getting involved in a number of
stadia and training pitch projects where there is strong interest in our solution.
As our patient warming solution is clearly superior, and with a strong sales
infrastructure now in place, we anticipate that Medical sales will grow strongly , from the
modest base established this year.   
Although the market potential has still to be proved, we are optimistic about the
opportunities in the Construction sector.
The challenges facing Inditherm in 2005 are demanding but the opportunities are
exciting. 2004 was a year of radical change in our business model and we are now well
positioned to exploit our targeted market sectors. However, these will take time to
develop, as customers gain confidence in Inditherm’s polymer technology and in our
ability to deliver value-added solutions. 
RICHARD HARPUM
Chief Executive
24 March 2005
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
