 Introduction
During 2005 we have concentrated on implementing the new business strategy
described in last year’s Report. This involved focusing on four business segments,
growing these businesses, developing new applications and standard product for these
sectors, improving our internal processes and continuing to train and develop our
people. 
There has been steady growth in the Industrial and Medical businesses and good initial
development of the Construction segment. Because we did not secure any pitch
heating orders, which accounted for £888k of sales last year, the total sales were lower
than 2004. 
Industrial 
Sales in this segment increased by 30% over 2004, mainly due to growth in process
heating orders. 
We made a decision to pursue larger orders, such as storage tanks, whilst not
neglecting the need to keep a strong flow of smaller orders; these have traditionally
acted as the seedbed from which larger orders have grown, as customers gain
confidence in our products and solutions. Whilst we saw substantial growth in smaller
orders, we saw less impact from larger projects, which generally have much longer
lead times. Although we successfully completed several larger projects, notably for
storage vessels and pipework heating in the food and chemicals sectors, several of the
larger opportunities have only recently been realised. 
To take advantage of the increasing emphasis on energy savings, fuelled by rising
energy costs, we are promoting the energy saving benefits of Inditherm to all our
customers. This work is already starting to bear fruit, as customers become
increasingly energy conscious. 
There was a major effort to develop more standard products, which has also resulted
in some new innovations, such as the prefabricated heated pipework system that is
now being installed at two leading confectionery manufacturing operations in the UK. 
We have strengthened the industrial sales organisation with the recruitment of a Sales
and Marketing Director and improved our selling processes and documentation.
The anticipated growth in water utility sales was not realised, as the time taken by the
utilities to establish the infrastructure required for the AMP4 Asset Management
Programme, which started in April, took much longer than expected. However, we
concentrated on building relationships with the new AMP4 partners, as well as
becoming registered as an approved supplier. I am pleased to report that we have now
started to receive orders.
A trial with Severn Trent Water to heat sewerage sludge lines, to stop them becoming
blocked, proved to be a total success. We are now in the process of capitalising on this
throughout the water utility industry. 
6
INDITHERM plc
Chief Executive’s Review Medical 
Medical orders increased by 54%. There was strong growth in export sales through the
increasing network of distributors, which was increased to eleven by the appointment
of six new distributors. A further four have already been appointed in 2006. 
Sales to the NHS were very slow in the first half year but picked up in the second half.
Nevertheless, NHS investment remains lower than we would like. To overcome some
of the barriers to entry, we developed a new leasing scheme, which has already
resulted in an order. 
Towards the end of the year we launched CosyTherm, a new neo-natal heating system
for use with premature or low birth-weight babies, or as a step-down from incubator
nursing, freeing up more expensive resources. There has been a very positive market
response, especially as our product fits well with modern clinical trends in nursing
new-born infants.
Construction 
After two years of joint research with the Centre for Infrastructure Management at
Sheffield Hallam University, the Construction business was set up at the beginning of
the year and was quickly rewarded with a substantial order for concrete curing
blankets for London Heathrow’s new Terminal 5. Although curing blankets are seen as
a good application for Inditherm, we are seeing much more market interest in heating
pre-cast concrete moulds. 
In conjunction with Sheffield Hallam University, we were awarded a grant from the
European FP6 CRAFT programme. The grant supports R&D to develop thermal curing
systems for pre-cast concrete manufacturing, based on Inditherm technology as the
heat source. The trans-European consortium of 13 development partners, called
LOVACS, is already well established and orders are being received.
Other opportunities in infrastructure heating are also being pursued, albeit as a lower
priority, so as not to lose focus on concrete curing applications.
Sport 
Following the installation of under-pitch heating systems at Falkirk Community
Stadium and Chelsea Football Club’s new Training Academy during 2004, we spent
2005 marketing the benefits of our system and have received significant levels of
interest from a number of clubs in the UK and Europe. However, because of the very
long lead times on most pitch heating projects, no further orders were obtained. 
The pitch heating business tends to be driven by new projects or a combination of
available financing and the replacement of existing, inefficient systems. Because the
Inditherm solution involves installing heating pads 300mm below the pitch surface,
projects are normally carried out in conjunction with major pitch refurbishment.
Nevertheless, Inditherm has now been specified on at least one major stadium project
and although we expect to receive at least one order during 2006, it is unlikely that any
projects will be undertaken during the year. 
7
Chief Executive’s Review (continued) Operations 
Substantial progress was made during the year to improve our operational
effectiveness, our internal processes and business systems. Where appropriate, some
automation was applied, not only to reduce costs but also to reduce variation and
improve quality. 
There was also a concerted effort to keep overhead expenses under tight control,
without sacrificing our promotional and marketing efforts. 
The new web site has been well-received and has started to generate a higher level of
enquiries from around the world. 
Independent market research conducted during the year showed that our customers
view our people as highly responsive and professional. 
Product Development 
Product development work was carried out in all main sectors during the year.
Substantial improvements were made to our Industrial products, notably the
development of more standard products, along with a new prefabricated pipework
heating system and innovative removable tank heating jackets. There were ongoing
improvements made to our Medical products, and CosyTherm was developed and
launched during the year. Development of Construction products remains mainly in
partnership with Sheffield Hallam University and the LOVACS Project partners. Sport
applications development has focused mainly on research into the effects of heating on
grass growth, plus the use of improved materials and innovative control systems. 
Outlook 
Industrial applications will remain the mainstay of the business for the coming year,
with growth anticipated in process heating, especially for large pipework and tank
heating systems. More widespread deployment of standard products will enable
growth in international sales through newly-appointed European distributors and
sales agents. 
We will also capitalise on the successful sewerage sludge line heating trials at Severn
Trent Water and other strong product offerings in the water utilities sector. Where
possible, we will take advantage of the opportunities arising from the AMP4
investment programme, which now appears to have started, a year later than
anticipated. 
Medical continues to be a key part of our business and whilst we will continue to see
growth in overseas markets, the UK tends to be more conservative due to capital
spending constraints. 
The Construction sector is expected to see growth in 2006, particularly for pre-cast
concrete curing applications. We intend to capitalise on the added benefits of EU
funding for these applications and an established base of development partners will
help to accelerate both technical and market development. The sector lends itself to the
deployment of standard heating pads that can be applied in a variety of applications. 
8
INDITHERM plc
Chief Executive’s Review (continued) Although we are targeting at least one pitch heating order during in 2006, this will not
be installed until the stadium is completed in 2007. In the meantime, we are
concentrating on getting Inditherm specified in other projects and are also seeking to
capitalise on any of the few short term opportunities that arise from time to time.
The challenges facing Inditherm in 2006 remain considerable but so are the
opportunities. At the year end there was a substantial value of quotes outstanding and
based upon our historical lead times and conversion rates, 2006 should be a much
better year than 2005. The encouraging factor is that customers are clearly gaining
confidence in Inditherm’s polymer technology and in our ability to deliver value-
added solutions that perform better than the alternatives. 
RICHARD HARPUM
Chief Executive
28 March 2006
9
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
