 Introduction
During 2005 our efforts were focused on developing strong market positions within the
four business segments of Industrial, Medical, Construction and Sport. Whilst the first
three segments grew, the lack of any pitch heating orders resulted in Sales being lower
than 2004. 
During the year substantial efforts were put into professionalising our business
processes. As a consequence, there has been an improvement in our operational quality
and response to customers. It has also enabled us to undertake larger or more complex
projects. 
An external survey was undertaken during the second half by an independent market
research firm. The research showed that the Company and its products are well regarded
by our customers but that potential customers tend to be conservative when switching
away from traditional heating technologies. However, once converted to Inditherm,
there is a high degree of satisfaction and confidence in both the Company and its
products. We believe that this explains the relatively slow take-up of the technology. 
On 9 December 2005, Inditherm announced that an approach had been made to the
Company which may or may not lead to an offer being made.
Since that time we have conducted meaningful talks with the party that made the
initial approach. As a result of our discussions, they have informed us that their
conclusion is that opportunities exist for deals to exploit Inditherm technology. These
include license and royalty agreements, technical collaboration and joint venturing.
However, the other party has also indicated it prefers exploring these alternative
structures to an outright purchase of the business.
Accordingly, offer talks have now terminated. Meanwhile discussions continue on the
other opportunities.
Results for the Year
Turnover for the year fell to £1,035k (2004: £1,598k), due to the lack of sports pitch
heating orders, which accounted for sales of £888k in 2004 and £30k in 2005. The
remaining businesses therefore grew by 42%.
The Industrial business showed continued growth of 30% in both small and larger orders
for industrial process heating solutions. Although our expectations for growth in water
utilities were not met, due to the slow start-up of the UK Asset Management Programme
(AMP4), we are now seeing demand pick up, as the Programme gathers momentum. 
The Medical business saw growth of 54%, with a steady flow of orders from overseas
distributors. After a slow first half in purchases from the NHS, these picked up in the
second half. At the end of the year we launched the new CosyTherm neo-natal
warming system, which has received a positive market response. 
The Construction business got off the ground in the year with a large order for concrete
curing blankets at London Heathrow’s new Terminal 5. 
The cost base was maintained with headcount being tightly controlled during the year.
Overheads before exceptional costs were £1,739k (2004: £1,694k) resulting in an
operating loss before exceptional costs of £1,402k (£1,176k). After restructuring and
exceptional costs of £50k (2004: £328k) and net interest income of £138k (2004: £182k),
the post-tax loss was £1,279k (2004: £1,306k).
4
INDITHERM plc
Chairman’s Statement The year end cash balance was £2,363k (2004: £3,590k). We believe that the Company
has sufficient funds to meet our current and medium term needs.
Dividends
As stated in previous years, it is the Board’s intention to devote the Company’s
financial resources to business development. This intention, which the Board believes
is in the shareholders’ best interests, has been pursued during 2005 and will continue
for the foreseeable future. The Board therefore does not expect to declare a dividend
during the Company’s continuing formative period.
Management 
Since the appointment last year of Richard Harpum as Chief Executive, there have
been a number of management changes. Colin Tarry, Technical and Business
Development Director, left the Company in June to pursue other interests. A new
Technical Manager was recruited in May and a new Sales & Marketing Director has
recently started to lead the selling efforts in Industrial and Construction.
Employees
We continue to invest in our workforce to ensure that we have the appropriate skills
with which to grow the business. The workforce is extremely flexible, which enables us
to respond quickly to customers’ needs and quickly develop new solutions to complex
heating problems. 
On behalf of the Board, I thank all our staff most sincerely for their continued support.
Outlook
Order intake for the first three months of 2006 shows a continuation of recent trends,
with a steady pickup in Industrial volumes. 
Our water utilities solutions are now gaining market acceptance and formal supplier
agreements with water utilities and AMP4 partners are in the process of being signed.
The launch of the new CosyTherm neo-natal heating mattress is expected to enhance the
growth prospects of the Medical segment.
Although the Construction business is in its infancy, it will be helped by work arising
from the European FP6 CRAFT grant with orders from consortium partners. 
Whilst we are pursuing several major pitch heating projects, we are not anticipating
carrying out any installations during 2006. 
Our growth continues but at a slower rate than originally envisaged. Accordingly, we
are reviewing strategic options for realising the value of our technology more quickly.
MARK ABRAHAMS
Chairman
28 March 2006
5
Chairman’s Statement (continued)
