 I believe that as we currently stand, Amara offers investors the lowest risk
exposure to growth in the gold industry in West Africa. This has required
significant investment and in 2013 we will start to see the results, as well
as maintaining our focus on a sustainable business model that offers
benefits to all stakeholders; investors, governments and local people.
We are geographically diversified, with assets in three countries across
West Africa. I have lived in the region for seven years and while I believe 
it is one of the best areas in the world to be operating, our strategy is to
ensure we are not overly exposed to any one jurisdiction. We are also
diversified in terms of our growth pipeline, with assets at all stages of
exploration, development and production. Through operating cashflow
from our operation in Burkina Faso we are able to support our exploration
programmes across our assets, which will in turn form our future growth.
In 2013 we will further develop our portfolio approach as our Mineral
Resources at Yaoure grow alongside Kalsaka/Sega and Baomahun.
Amara’s core focus for 2012 was to achieve a number of key milestones
across our asset base in order to deliver on our growth potential in the
short, medium and long term. The Company we are today is very
different from the one I reported on a year ago, with changes to our
leadership, projects, financial outlook and even our name. We have made
good progress along our path of evolution and growth. I strongly believe
we have never been better positioned to deliver on the value of our
assets, which is testament to the hard work of our Board, corporate
team and operational workforce.
Operating and Financial Performance 
The Kalsaka gold mine continued to operate profitably in 2012 despite
the challenges inherent in a mine approaching the end of its life. 
It produced 53,544 ounces of gold at a cash cost (excluding royalties) 
of US$961 per ounce, generating strong EBITDA of US$35.2 million.
The average head grade processed at Kalsaka in 2012 was 15% lower
than in 2011, which contributed to the 25% reduction in gold produced.
Despite this, Amara maintained good control of its operating costs which
increased by 17% in the year, in-line with the falling grade and less than
the fall in total production. As a result, we achieved a healthy pre-tax
cash margin at Kalsaka of US$703 per ounce sold.
Importantly, we continued to build on our strong safety record during the
year, in line with our commitment to ensuring international best practice
for health and safety across all areas of our business. We achieved five
million man-hours worked without a lost time injury at Kalsaka in July
2012 and six million man-hours in January 2013. I’d like to thank all of
our operational team at Kalsaka for their commitment to reaching this
milestone as our goal continues to be for every employee to go home
safe at the end of every shift.
Development and Growth Projects
We invested a record amount in exploration in 2012, with the US$34
million of expenditure signifying a 11-fold increase on our investment
level from three years ago (2009: US$3.0 million). Exploration is the
lifeblood of a mining company and a key element of Amara’s strategy is
to continue to use operating cashflow from Kalsaka/Sega to support our
exploration campaign and thus our future growth. Amara is committed to
maintaining a sustainable business model and in 2013 the total
exploration budget is US$20 million, a significant reduction on 2012, as
our assets enter a more evaluative period. In 2013 Amara will ensure its
investments in exploration and infrastructure more closely align to the
cash in flow from operations.
Company Overview
12
Amara Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s Statement
I began building and operating mines in
Africa 13 years ago and I am very familiar
with the challenges of our industry. As a
result, my priority as Chief Executive over
the past 12 months has been to lower the
risk while maximising the growth potential
of our assets.
We aim to develop the business further in 2013 through 
the following key objectives:
> Achieve production of 50,000-60,000 ounces at Kalsaka/Sega 
in 2013 while maintaining rigorous control on cash costs
> Further progress the development of Baomahun through the
delivery of the Feasibility Study in H1 2013 and the start of
construction in Q4 2013
> Increase our reserves and resources across our assets
> Continue to build on our industry-leading safety record
> Strengthen our relationships with our host countries
> Continue to attract high quality individuals to enhance the Amara
team and help us transform into a mid-tier producer
2012 Achievements
> Amara successfully refocused on a low risk, portfolio approach
> Cashflow generation maintained through Sega acquisition -
production expected to increase in 2013 as a result of higher
grade Sega material
> Board, corporate team and operation team enhanced – right
people in place to take Amara to mid-tier producer status
> Continued to work closely with all stakeholders including host
countries’ governments and local communities
> Industry leading safety record maintained
Peter Spivey
Chief Executive Officer Our exploration team’s primary focus in 2012 was Yaoure, with 29,988
metres drilled in 2012 to advance our exploration of the sulphide
potential at this project. The recently announced Mineral Resource
update from this drilling has significantly increased Amara’s resource
base, with the opportunity for further growth in 2013. In the coming year
we expect to fully realise the value of our investment in 2012 as we
demonstrate the potential scale of the project through the delivery of a
Preliminary Economic Assessment (“PEA”).
Strong progress was made at Baomahun with the delivery of a Mineral
Resource update in November 2012 and I have been delighted by the
subsequent results from our project development team. The on-going
optimisation and scheduling work on the project will soon culminate in
the issuing of a Mineral Reserve statement as the basis of our feasibility
study, which remains on track for completion in Q2 2013.
Following initial promising exploration from the Mamoudouya project in
western Mali, the results from the 2012 drilling campaign were not
significant enough to warrant further investment, so we have chosen to
divest our interest in this project and focus our efforts on exploration
opportunities in our three core countries. We have grassroots exploration
assets in eastern Burkina Faso and we are assessing other early stage
opportunities in Sierra Leone and Côte d’Ivoire in order to maintain our
pipeline of projects in the long term.
Addressing Costs
Containing our cash costs is a key focus for Amara. The continued
strength in fuel prices and other consumables, together with the number
of new projects coming on-stream in Africa, have introduced
considerable cost pressures across our industry. We have particularly
seen this in Burkina Faso, where the price of fuel has increased over
27% from US$1.21 per litre at the start of 2012 to US$1.54 per litre when
we published the results of the PEA for Sega in October. Fortunately, we
are well positioned to absorb this higher cost as our heap leach plant
only requires 1MW of power and the stripping ratio at Kalsaka fell 25%
to 4.97 in 2012. Savings realised in key consumables, such as cement,
also assisted with our overall cost control. Once material from Sega
begins to be processed in mid-2013 we expect our cash costs to reduce
further, despite additional costs associated with trucking, due to the
higher grade material available.
Managing energy costs is on the agenda of every mining company. 
At Amara we are actively addressing the need to decouple our gold
production from the rising long-term oil price. In parts of West Africa
there is a strong opportunity for hydro-electric power (“HEP”) and both of
our growth projects in Sierra Leone and Côte d’Ivoire are located close to
bodies of water that have existing or the potential for low cost HEP .
Using HEP to provide the majority of Baomahun’s power needs is
expected to reduce our cash costs materially, exposing our shareholders
to a rising gold price without seeing margins eroded by escalating fuel
costs. However, we anticipate the Feasibility Study being based on a
heavy fuel oil scenario, demonstrating that even without the benefits of
HEP Baomahun is still highly economic.
In Côte d’Ivoire, our Yaoure exploration project is located 5km from Lake
Kossou, the third largest body of water in West Africa, with a 150MW HEP
facility already in operation and an announced expansion to the country’s
power generation. The implication for Amara is that there is a surplus of
cheap power and electrical reticulation on our doorstep, which will
significantly reduce the capital and operating cost requirements for our
Yaoure project, thereby lowering the economic hurdle for development.
West African Politics
Living in West Africa with my family, I have a thorough understanding of
the need for a company to maintain its social licence to operate. Amara
has an outstanding country manager in each of its three main host
countries and I have been very pleased with the progress they have
made over the past year in engaging with our host governments, regional
authorities and local communities.
Given the prevailing industry backdrop and current level of profitability of
the mining sector we have proactively engaged with the Burkina Faso,
Sierra Leone and Côte d’Ivoire Governments and other stakeholders to
ensure we make a contribution commensurate with the financial
performance of our business. During the year we paid a total of 
US$14.7 million in tax in Burkina Faso including corporate tax, royalties
and indirect taxation. We have also contributed directly to Côte d’Ivoire
and Sierra Leone in respect of indirect taxes paid despite our operations
not yet generating revenue. We will continue to work with the relevant
authorities in order to ensure we achieve the optimum long-term structure
for our company and all of our stakeholders across our host countries.
We have also continued to contribute to community initiatives, and it was
particularly rewarding for me to be involved with a ceremony to present the
keys to two schools in Sierra Leone to the communities near Baomahun.
Outlook
Amara’s aim for 2012 was to progress the development of our growth
assets, while ensuring production continues in Burkina Faso in order to
maintain our cashflow. Both of our growth assets are capable of
sustaining over 100,000 ounces of annual gold production and the
development of these kinds of projects, rather than smaller heap leach
operations, is the key to realising our goal of becoming a mid-tier
producer in the near term.
John McGloin’s appointment has been pivotal to our company, with his
experience as a resource geologist complementing my skills as a mine
developer and the financial skills of Pete Gardner, our Finance Director.
As a result of our continued investment across our assets and our
people at all levels we enter 2013 in good shape, having further
positioned our company for growth.
Finally, I would like to thank all of my colleagues for their enthusiasm,
hard work and commitment throughout what has been a key year in the
growth of our company. I would also like to thank the Board for their
good counsel and support and I now feel strongly that we have the right
team in place to transform Amara into a mid-tier producer. 2013 will be
another important year for our company and we have the people, assets
and robust balance sheet to deliver on our potential.
Peter Spivey
Chief Executive Officer
26 March 2013
Company Overview
13
Amara Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements
