 We expect to reap the benefits of this investment by delivering
growth in a robust, sustainable way throughout 2013. This
investment has lowered the risk profile and bolstered the potential
returns from Amara’s pipeline of projects.
We closed the year with US$36.2 million in cash and liquid assets and 
no hedging, including the US$20 million debt facility from our long-term
partner Samsung, which provides us with significant strategic flexibility 
to grow our Company. Although production at Kalsaka was slightly lower
than anticipated at the start of the year (53,544 ounces), the integration
of the Sega project with Kalsaka in mid-2013 is expected to deliver
production growth and to continue to provide us with a robust cash
engine to develop our business in the years ahead.
At our growth assets we completed the resource upgrade at Baomahun
in November 2012 and our feasibility study remains on track for release
in Q2 2013. At Yaoure our exploration programme has defined the
footprint of a large-scale sulphide resource and the on-going infill drilling
programme is expected to further define the recently announced
resource later this year.
Market Outlook
Gold continued to dominate the headlines in 2012, although it did not
reach the record levels experienced in September 2011. The global
macroeconomic backdrop continued to be characterised by weakness,
with the global easing of monetary policy, as well as large fiscal deficits,
pointing to inflation and a depreciating US dollar in the long term. These
conditions have lead to strong demand for gold, which is viewed as a
hedge against inflation and has historically been inversely correlated to
the US dollar. We continue to be positive on the long-term demand
fundamentals for the precious metal as global growth remains subdued
and Governments continue to attempt to revive their economies through
inflation and monetary easing.
Gold’s outperformance in recent years has mirrored to some extent the
rise in other commodities and thus an increase in input costs for the
sector. The result of this has been that margins have been contained, or
in some cases eroded, and the increase in the price of gold has not been
matched by the performance of gold equities. As an industry we have
failed to adequately convey this to investors and governments. This has
led to dissatisfaction from investors regarding returns and concern from
governments that they are not reaping the rewards for their country of a
thriving mining industry. It is our intention as we grow into a mid-tier
producer to show total production costs in addition to the cash costs
commonly quoted by our peers, to provide a greater level of
transparency for investors and governments alike.
It is worth noting that at current levels, our operation provides us 
with solid cash flow to continue growing our resource base through
exploration and allows us the breathing space to position ourselves for
growth. In addition we have established a strong strategic relationship
with Samsung, as we look to de-risk Amara financially and move
towards the next stage of development at Baomahun. We believe that
this is important in light of the current investment sentiment that has put
pressure on mining equities globally and in particular the smaller gold
mining equities with the current sideways trajectory of the gold price,
along with a move away from risk.
Financing Strategies
Given Amara’s ability to generate cash from its existing operations, 
we have no need to raise finance to continue our exploration strategy.
We only reach a financing decision at the point at which we move the
Baomahun development forward. In fact, if were we to stop our
discretionary exploration spend, the Company’s cash balance would
grow, albeit at the expense of Amara’s optionality. 
One of the questions we are asked frequently is how we are planning to
fund the construction of Baomahun given the current challenging market
conditions. Our partnership with Samsung has been significant in de-
risking the project, and I was delighted when Amara’s partnership with
Samsung was recognised at the Mining Journal Outstanding
Achievement Awards in December 2012 as the winner of the
Development Funding Award. However, we are aware that it is important
not to over-leverage ourselves and it is likely that we will need to finance
a portion of the estimated US$200 million capital investment through
other instruments. The market expectation of this event has continued to
weigh on our share price this year.
Fortunately, we are in a position of flexibility and have been exploring
options to minimise long-term equity dilution. In addition to equity we
have a number of options. Unlike Kalsaka/Sega and Yaoure, which are
subject to a 10% free carry for the host government, we own 100% of
Baomahun. Selling a small portion of the project equity to a third party or
bringing in a joint venture partner for the project could form the basis of a
sustainable and non-dilutive financing strategy, with our Yaoure project
continuing to provide a strong growth pipeline. We appointed debt
advisors in H1 2012 to evaluate strategic options, without the need for
gold hedging, and although our alliance with Samsung has been an
important step forwards, they remain focused on this goal.
Investing In Our People
Our ethos at Amara is that a company is only as good as its people. In
2012 we continued to strengthen the management team both in London
and West Africa.
In January 2012 we appointed Richard Quarmby as Group Project
Manager. Prior to joining Amara, Richard worked for Randgold
Resources, where he was instrumental in developing the Morila and
Loulo greenfield projects in Mali into highly successful gold mines. A year
later in January 2013 we were pleased to welcome Bruce van Brunt to
our team as Group Manager of Technical Services and Business
Development. Bruce has more than 30 years’ experience in mine
development and evaluation, most recently with Teranga Gold Corp at its
Sabodala mine in Senegal. Bruce is based in West Africa and will be
working alongside Richard and Peter Spivey to manage the smooth
transition of Baomahun from exploration to construction. He will also be
focused on the integration of Kalsaka and Sega to ensure production
continues uninterrupted.
Company Overview
10
Amara Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chairman’s Statement
John McGloin
Executive Chairman
It is a pleasure to present my first Annual
Report as Executive Chairman and also the
first Annual Report for the newly named
Amara Mining plc. 2012 was a year of
significant investment for our Company
across our assets and our people as we
reached a number of key milestones and
strengthened our team at all levels.  We have also consolidated our exploration team, further strengthening
our technical capabilities. At the end of 2011 Peter Brown joined Amara
as Group Exploration Manager and during the past year he has
appointed Ludie Henning, Hamish Maclaren and Paul Nuttall to manage
the Kalsaka/Sega, Baomahun and Yaoure projects respectively. Between
them, Ludie, Hamish and Paul have over 75 years’ of African exploration
experience, including previous roles with AngloGold Ashanti and 
Gold Fields.
In addition to upgrading our operational expertise, we also expanded our
corporate team. In order to further advance our commitment to promoting
and developing the skillset of our employees, we appointed a Group
Human Resources Manager in June 2012. Gina Scorteanu’s experience
of working in West Africa and her guidance in terms of best practice are
helping to ensure that our people, our Company and our host countries
reap the benefits of a more highly trained workforce. Further initiatives for
employee development will be introduced during 2013.
One of my roles when I joined Amara was to enhance our ability to
communicate with our shareholders and the financial markets in London
and North America. As part of this process, we appointed Katharine
Sutton as Head of Investor Relations in July 2012. She has introduced 
a greater degree of structure to all of our investor activities and in 2013
we will be looking to expand our investor footprint in Europe and Asia, 
as well as in our traditional markets.
Board Changes In Line with Amara’s Growth
As I reported in the 2011 Annual Report in my role as Chairman Elect, in
early 2012 I initiated a thorough review of the Board, its structure and
effectiveness. The Company is at a crucial time in its development and in
order to economically exploit our asset base and to take advantage of
the opportunities that may arise, the skills of our leadership team must
be aligned to this growth path.
It was with pleasure that in May 2012 we welcomed Hennie Faul as a
Non-Executive Director, whose global experience as Group Head of
Mining for Anglo American plc and track record in the African mining
industry adds strong technical expertise to our team. More recently in
March 2013, the Right Honourable Peter Hain MP also joined our Board.
Peter will focus on the corporate social responsibility, community relations
and environmental aspects of our business together with broader African
political relations. He brings valuable experience in African politics,
including three years as Minister of State at the Foreign Office.
I would again like to thank Algy Cluff for his vision in building the
Company, particularly in gathering assets and nurturing a team of people
who are poised to take Amara to the next stage of its development. Algy
resigned as Non-Executive Chairman in May 2012 to pursue an alternate
natural resources venture and I wish him well for the future. Later in the
year, Ronald Winston, Bobby Danchin and Nicholas Berry chose to step-
down as Non-Executive Directors as part of the review. I thank them all
for their good counsel during the Company’s formative years. Today the
Board comprises three Executive Directors and four Non-Executive
Directors, a more appropriate number for a company of Amara’s size.
In Partnership with West Africa
We are committed to working with the highest level of respect for the
communities and environments in which we operate, while pursuing value
for our shareholders. Peter Hain’s appointment to our Board is testament
to this commitment. In particular, Amara has continued to support
initiatives focused on three key areas: education (particularly of women),
healthcare and agriculture. Throughout the year we have continued to
strengthen our existing commitment to corporate social responsibility
across our assets in Burkina Faso, Sierra Leone and Côte d’Ivoire and our
country managers regularly meet with our stakeholders to ensure that our
financial support generates the maximum possible impact.
The Year Ahead
The change of our Company’s name from Cluff Gold to Amara Mining
symbolises the beginning of our transition into a mid-tier gold producer
and 2013 promises to be an exciting year. In 2012 we invested in our
growth and in 2013 we expect to unlock the value as a result of it. 
The transformation of our company from a small-scale junior producer 
to a larger, more sustainable business will continue, as we deliver the
Feasibility Study for Baomahun, integrate the Sega deposit with our
Kalsaka mine, and continue to grow our resources at Yaoure.
We have strengthened our team to deliver a viable economic project at
Baomahun. The work that has been conducted over the last year leaves
me in no doubt that we have a significant high grade gold deposit with a
lower grade halo that will be developed into Sierra Leone’s first open pit
gold mine. There is, I believe, a robust opportunity to extend the mine life
beyond the open pit by targeting thick high grade zones at depth. These
have been identified by wide spaced drilling and are currently
categorised as Inferred resources, not suitable for a Feasibility Study. 
Our intention is to continue exploration as we develop the mine and have
a better understanding of the geology and rock mechanics. This is a low
risk approach and will offer additional upside to our Feasibility Study,
which is on track for delivery in June.
As a geologist by background, I am particularly excited by the
exploration results we have received since the start of 2012 from Yaoure,
and I expect to see this project becoming an increasingly important part
of our portfolio of assets. Extensive drilling was done at the project
during 2012 to identify the footprint of the mineralisation and the
potential quantum of the project before closing down the spacing to
define a resource. While the deposit remains open to the northwest, 
the final phase of drilling last year has allowed us to announce the initial
resource of 0.3 million Indicated ounces (8.0Mt at 1.31g/t) and 1.7 million
Inferred ounces (34.6Mt at 1.52g/t). This Mineral Resource is drawn from
40% of the defined mineralised system. Further drilling in 2013 will allow
us to further define this and to better understand the continuity of the
high grade zones within the system. Very little value is currently attributed
to Yaoure by the market, creating an opportunity for a re-rating of our
stock as we continue to deliver results. I believe that, while of moderate
grade, Yaoure will ultimately be one of the largest gold deposits in Côte
d’Ivoire. Amara remains positive on the outlook for the gold industry and
committed to advancing our position as a responsible and profitable
West African gold producer. 
Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Board members for their hard
work, dedication and valuable guidance throughout the year. It has been
a particular pleasure working alongside my fellow Executive Directors,
Peter Spivey and Pete Gardner, and I am confident that together we can
realise the potential of our assets.
My first year at the helm of Amara has been everything I hoped for and
more. Despite challenging market conditions our Company is now well-
positioned to deliver its next phase of growth. I look forward to updating
you over the course of 2013 as we continue along our path to becoming
a mid-tier producer.
John McGloin
Executive Chairman
26 March 2013
Company Overview
11
Amara Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements
