 Overview
During 2006 we focused on achieving top line growth, whilst keeping costs and cash
outflow under control. We continued to focus on our three main business segments of
Industrial, Medical and Construction, adding new products and systems, and gaining
credibility as a solutions provider with a number of major international customers. 
The supply agreement with Smiths Medical is a major endorsement of our patient
warming technology and provides the platform for substantial growth in our Medical
business during 2007. 
The cash placing has given us the opportunity to invest in additional sales and
technical resources and means that we can accelerate the growth opportunities. 
Industrial
Sales in the Industrial segment increased by 31% over 2005, and orders by 45%, mainly
due to growth in process heating orders for our new modular pipework systems and
associated tank heaters. 
We received several orders for larger heating installations from well known
manufacturers for heating chocolate, sugars and chemicals. One of these was installed
in Poland, where we demonstrated our ability to manage such projects by completing
ahead of schedule. The key value propositions of these modular systems are the
shortened installation time, improved hygiene, energy savings, controllability and
improved production output. Energy savings as a result of using Inditherm, now
verified by several of our customers, can be as high as 75% on a like-for-like basis. In
order to retain our focus on our core competencies, we have chosen to subcontract
areas such as pipework and cladding to competent partners, albeit at lower margins. 
During the year we signed a framework agreement with Yorkshire Water and carried
out successful trials for heating sewerage sludge transfer lines with Severn Trent Water.
After a slow start in 2005, we are now receiving regular water utility orders under the
AMP4 Asset Management Programme.
During the year we appointed more overseas distributors and since the cash placing,
have strengthened the industrial sales organisation with the recruitment of additional
sales resources.
Medical
Medical orders increased by 165%, and sales by 146%, helped by the first stock order
from Smiths Medical in December. Deliveries to Smiths Medical have now commenced
and they have now placed a further order for delivery in the second quarter. 
During the year we appointed eight new overseas distributors.  
Sales to the NHS have picked up and we are now recognised as providing a highly
cost-effective solution. We have recently strengthened our UK Medical sales force. 
Sales of the CosyTherm neonatal warming system have grown well and we are also
pursuing international distribution opportunities. 
6
INDITHERM plc
Chief Executive’s Review Construction
The Construction business had an encouraging year, with the successful installation of
a major concrete curing system for a large pre-caster. This really highlighted the
benefits of our system: more rapid curing, improved hydration and early strength
development, significantly reduced energy cost (typically 80% or more), the
opportunity to reduce cement content, along with a range of operational benefits. 
Other projects included supplying curing blankets for rapid runway repairs at a major
UK airport.
Other Activities
Our standard product lines, notably vessel heaters and heating pads for pizza and
curry bags, have continued to grow during the year, providing a good base load of
work. 
Whilst our existing under-pitch heating installations continue to operate well and we
continue to pursue those opportunities that arise from time to time, this is no longer a
key area of focus, due to the sporadic nature of this market. 
Operations 
Our efforts to reduce overhead spend continued throughout the year, with substantial
reductions being achieved. Despite the additional headcount now in place, our first
quarter overheads in 2007 are 13% lower than in 2006 and 9% lower than in 2005. 
Our project management capabilities were put to the test on a number of large projects
and in each case, we were able to delight our customers by completing the work on or
ahead of schedule. 
Product Development 
Product development work continued in all main business sectors during the year.
Further improvements were made to our Industrial products, notably enhancements
and options for our modular pipework systems. 
There were ongoing improvements made to our Medical products and some new
products based upon our proven technology are also in the pipeline. 
The concrete curing R&D project under the European FP6 CRAFT programme,
previously reported, has gone well, further validating the technology and providing
valuable technical data. Cooperation agreements are being negotiated with some
members of the trans-European consortium.
During the year we formed a partnership with Grant Rail and Sheffield Hallam
University to develop a system for heating railway track, so that it can be welded more
easily. This is supported by a Yorkshire Forward grant. Initial field test results have
been encouraging. 
7
Chief Executive’s Review (continued) Outlook 
The agreement with Smiths Medical provides an excellent platform for growth.
Medical production rates have been increased to meet our commitments. 
Based upon enquiries and recent order flow, Industrial sales are expected to exceed the
growth rate seen last year, mainly due to the market acceptance of our modular
pipework and tank heating technology. It appears that Inditherm is no longer seen as
a high risk purchase, and we are now moving from technical to commercial acceptance.
The growing interest in energy savings and the greater emphasis on hygiene among
food manufacturers are also expected to drive demand. More widespread deployment
of standard products will facilitate growth in international sales through our
distributor network. Water utility work continues to rise and with more field sales
people now in place, we intend to pursue all the major water utilities throughout the
UK. 
Now that we have some good reference sites, the Construction sector is expected to see
significant growth in 2007, particularly for pre-cast concrete curing applications. 
Our initial goal is to reach break-even as fast as possible and our entire team is focused
on achieving this. 
The challenges facing Inditherm in 2007 remain considerable but so are the
opportunities. We have started the year with a substantial order backlog which has
given us a solid start to the year. 
RICHARD HARPUM
Chief Executive
29 March 2007
8
INDITHERM plc
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
