 Introduction
2006 was a year of transformation for Inditherm. Following the introduction of our
focused strategy to expand in the Industrial, Medical and Construction sectors,
emphasising larger projects, the first signs of success started to emerge. The signing of
the supply agreement with Smiths Medical, significant orders for industrial process
plants and a major pre-cast concreting project, provided further encouragement. 
The year culminated with the launch in December of a re-financing and strengthening
of the Balance Sheet (which was approved by the shareholders at an Extraordinary
General Meeting on 12 January 2007), by way of a Placing of 30,000,000 new Ordinary
Shares at a price of 10 pence per Placing Share. Following completion of the Placing,
the issued share capital of the Company increased to 51,112,581 Ordinary Shares and
the Group’s cash resources increased to £4,567k immediately after the Placing.
Results
Turnover for the year rose by 51% to £1,564k (2005: £1,035k), mainly due to growth in
both Medical and Industrial sales. Orders received maintained the 71% growth rate
reported in the first half year. 
The Industrial business showed continued growth in sales of 31%, which was mainly
driven by the successful introduction of our new modular pipework system,
accompanied by large tank heating installations. During the year we received several
larger orders for these systems from well-known confectionery and food
manufacturers. The value drivers for these systems are substantial energy reductions,
hygiene benefits and more rapid installation. Following a slow start, towards the year
end we saw an encouraging increase in work for UK water utilities through the current
Asset Management Programme (AMP4). 
The Medical business grew by 146%, with 165% orders growth, helped at the year end
by a stock order from Smiths Medical. Purchases by the NHS improved and the
addition of 8 new overseas distributors contributed to the sustained growth in exports.
The new CosyTherm neo-natal warming product, launched towards the end of 2005,
has been well received in the market and sales are growing. 
The Construction business made steady progress and obtained a large order for precast
concrete curing blankets. This demonstrated significant benefits for the customer,
including the ability to reduce the cement content of the concrete. The project has acted
as a valuable reference for other precast manufacturers.
The cost base was reduced by 10% during the year, with all expenditure being tightly
controlled. Overheads before exceptional costs were £1,571k (2005: £1,739k), resulting
in an operating loss before exceptional costs of £1,087k (2005: £1,402k). After
restructuring and exceptional costs of £152k (2005: £50k) and net interest income of
£83k (2005: £138k), the post-tax loss was £1,132k (2005: £1,279k).
The year end cash balance was £1,747k (2005: £2,363k). The cash placing on 15 January
2007 raised a further £2.8 million net of expenses. We believe that the Company has
sufficient funds to meet our current and medium term needs.
4
INDITHERM plc
Chairman’s Statement Dividends
As stated in previous years, it is the Board’s intention to devote the Company’s
financial resources to business development. This intention, which the Board believes
is in the shareholders’ best interests, has been pursued during 2006 and will continue
for the foreseeable future. The Board therefore does not expect to declare a dividend
during the Company’s continuing development period.
Employees
Following the recent surge in quotation activity and orders, we have responded by
promoting a number of sales and operations people, followed by a recruitment
programme designed to maintain our growth momentum. 
On behalf of the Board, I thank all our staff most sincerely for their continued support.
Outlook
During recent months we have seen an encouraging increase in the level of enquiries
and orders. The order book at the start of the year has given us a strong start and order
intake for the first quarter of 2007 is up more than 40%. 
Our industrial solutions are now well proven and have been embraced by several key
customers as the way forward for process heating, mainly due to the energy saving and
hygiene benefits. 
The supply contract with Smiths Medical is expected to drive growth in our Medical
business and will supplement the growth anticipated from both domestic and export
sales of patient warming and neonatal products.
The Construction business is now well-established and there is growing interest in our
concrete curing products. The two year project funded by the European FP6 CRAFT
grant, previously reported, is yielding excellent results, as well as orders from
consortium partners. 
Our initial goal going forward is to reach break-even. Based upon current prospects, I
am encouraged that this can be achieved. 
MARK ABRAHAMS
Chairman
29 March 2007
5
Chairman’s Statement (continued)
