 Overview
The Company saw some further sales growth during 2007, but this was modest at just
under 20%. However, operating losses were reduced by 25%.
Order intake grew substantially in Medical but fell slightly in Industrial, giving an
overall increase in orders of 30%. The sale of a football pitch heating system and start-
up trading with Smiths Medical for the USA market had an impact on this growth at a
level that is unlikely to be repeated in the short term. Gross margins almost doubled to
£806k, primarily due to improvements in the Industrial sector and the greater
proportion of Medical business.
Sales and Marketing
Sales and orders in the Industrial markets were down by around 10% year-on-year. The
results from this area of the business were not satisfactory, largely due to the
conversion rates and the proportion of bought-in components and subcontracted
activities. This is largely a result of Inditherm acting as the main contractor on larger
projects. 
Our intention is now to focus more on areas where our technology and expertise add
value, where possible forming strategic partnerships to help deliver our solutions more
effectively to the market. Whilst this may not deliver high sales growth in the short
term, it should drive up the profitability of this part of the business and place us in a
better position for long term growth.
Medical sales and orders grew by over 80% in 2007; however this was boosted
significantly by the demonstration systems and launch stock ordered by Smiths
Medical for the USA market. Excluding the USA, Medical orders grew by 40%.
Neonatal sales increased by over 60% in the UK market, where we believe we are now
the clear market leader for our sector, although uptake has been slower in the export
territories. 
Our products for operating theatres and neonatal warming were awarded an NHS
PASA contract during the year and are now offered through NHS Logistics to
hospitals. This allows hospitals to purchase without the need to go to tender and we
expect this to help in increasing uptake within the NHS in the years ahead. We have
identified a distributor for our neonatal range in the USA and expect to conclude a
formal agreement and fully launch the product in the first half of 2008. 
We introduced a number of new products during the year; although these are for
inherently smaller market sectors they give us additional growth potential. The market
uptake in the USA has been slower than we had hoped, however Smiths Medical have
made a large investment and recently secured their first end-user orders. Nevertheless,
they have not reached the target purchase levels and we will therefore consider
opening parallel channels to market in the USA. We have carried a significant order
book into 2008, primarily forward orders from Smiths, which will boost sales in the
first quarter of 2008 above previously achieved rates. Market uptake in the USA
through Smiths is unproven as yet and we therefore continue to review progress on an
ongoing basis. The Company cannot expect the recent sales rate to continue during the
coming period.
6
INDITHERM plc
Chief Executive’s Review Sales and Marketing (continued)
Commercial results from Construction markets were disappointing. However,
activities with a small number of customers during the year have allowed us to
determine where the best opportunities lie. Our intention is to focus on the pre-cast
concrete market in the immediate future, where Inditherm technology appears to offer
a unique solution that delivers real benefit to the customer.
We secured the order for heating of the new Aston Villa training pitch, which should
further enhance our credibility in this market. However, the profitability in this
application has been marginal and it has been decided that now we have good
reference sites we will only pursue such projects in the future if reasonable margins can
be realised.
Product Development
Our development team has been substantially strengthened during the year and we
are already beginning to realise the benefits. Further work on developing products for
Industrial applications continued, with particular focus on some of the standard
products towards the end of the year. 
Work on our Medical product range saw the launch of new products at our distributor
conference in October 2007. These included systems for veterinary warming and A&E
departments. Further developments are in progress.
Activity in the construction field has delivered systems for warming pre-cast concrete
by integration into the manufacturers’ moulds. This is proving a superior solution to
the original blanket type design and further work in this area continues.
Work on the heating of railway tracks has continued, with successful trials concluded
that have demonstrated that Inditherm can meet the heating specifications required.
The primary focus is now on developing the solution to meet the practical needs for
routine use. This is a longer term project, although we hope to realise revenue from
funded development work and large scale evaluations in the short term.
Operations
We continue to be perceived by our customers as delivering high quality products and
being a responsive supplier. The potential for further improvements in efficiency
remains and this is being addressed.
The growth in Medical product orders has proved a challenge; however we have
added to this team during the year and have already demonstrated that we can now
cope with the increased output.
Outlook
In order to secure a faster route to profitability we intend to focus on areas where we
have already demonstrated greatest strength and opportunity.
Performance in the Medical markets has already shown good growth and profitability
and we will devote our energy to continue this trend and accelerate wherever possible.
This is heavily dependent on the success of Smiths Medical in the USA, therefore we
intend to focus on trying to drive forward that relationship.
7
Chief Executive’s Review (continued) Outlook (continued)
In Industrial applications we plan to reduce our activity in several areas which require
disproportionate effort for poor returns. This will allow us to focus on developing
market areas where we can deliver a larger proportion of standard products. Wherever
possible we will restrict ourselves to the supply of heating components, and work with
strategic partners who can deliver the associated infrastructure such as pipes, tanks
and cladding. 
Our Construction activity will focus particularly on the pre-cast concrete market,
where we have demonstrated that we can deliver significant customer benefits. This
will ensure that we concentrate on areas that can deliver growth, in both the short and
longer term, realise good margins, and avoid distractions that reduce market
penetration.
Inditherm still faces significant challenges, however the proven performance in
Medical combined with a more focused approach in Industrial and Construction, give
reason for optimism. A trading profit in the first two months of 2008 gives further
encouragement, although this is highly influenced by the delivery of USA launch
stocks.
NICK BETTLES
Chief Executive
27 March 2008
8
INDITHERM plc
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
