 Overview
The start of 2007 saw a strengthening of the balance sheet with the cash placing in
January which raised £2.8m net of expenses. We believe this has provided the
Company with adequate funds to meet its medium term needs.
Although sales in 2007 grew modestly, order intake increased by 30% with substantial
growth in Medical. The football pitch heating system for Aston Villa’s new training
facility and the Smiths Medical launch stock had a significant one-off impact on this
growth. Improved margins, particularly in the core business, reduced operating losses
by 25%.
Performance in Industrial markets showed no growth and actions are already
underway to change the performance of this area of the business in the year ahead. The
strategy will be redirected to focus on standardising the product range. This should
enable Inditherm to meet many of the current Industrial customers’ requirements in a
much more efficient manner, thereby leading to improved margins.
Results
Turnover for the year rose by 19% to £1,861k (2006: £1,564k), due to growth in Medical
sales and work completed on the pitch heating system for Aston Villa. This maintained
the growth rate reported in the first half of the year.
Administrative expenses were kept under control during the year, with an increase of
5%. Administrative expenses before exceptional costs were £1,605k (2006: £1,571k),
resulting in a 23% improvement in operating loss before exceptional items at £799k
(2006: £1,087k). After exceptional costs of £128k (2006: £152k) and net interest income
of £213k (2006: 83k), the post-tax loss was £699k (2006: £1,132k).
The year end cash balance was £3,485k (2006: £1,747k), representing a net outflow from
operating activities of £1,044k (2006: £876k) offset by the fundraising. The year-on-year
difference is largely due to a growth in the level of polymer stocks held and an increase
in trade receivables at the year end due to the pitch heating system at Aston Villa.
Operations
Sales in the Industrial markets fell by 10%, however percentage margins doubled.
During the year we continued our growth in the food sector with notable orders from
two leading international confectionery manufacturers. Progress has otherwise been
disappointing in this area of the business, although it remained the largest proportion
of annual sales.
Medical orders excluding the USA grew by 40% over the previous year, which was
further boosted by orders for launch stocks from Smiths Medical. Although progress
with Smiths in developing US Medical end user sales has been slower than anticipated,
the first signs of progress are emerging. We will keep this situation under review to
determine whether additional channels need to be developed.
We now have over 30 distributors and overseas partners in the rest of the world, giving
us a firm base from which to continue the growth of our export business. UK orders
grew by 36% as acceptance of our technology in the market increases; we anticipate
that the award of an NHS PASA (Purchasing & Supply Agency) contract during the
year will help us to continue this growth.
Commercial exploitation of our technology in the pre-cast concrete industry continued
during the year with a small number of manufacturers. This has demonstrated
4
INDITHERM plc
Chairman’s Statement significant advantages to our customers. We are now focused on developing these
relationships to gain valuable reference sites.
In August 2007, we were awarded the contract to heat a football pitch at the new Aston
Villa training ground, worth £199k. This adds a further reference site, and has helped
maintain high utilisation of the factory. The heating pads were installed on schedule
before the end of the year; installation of electrical panels and controls are planned
during the second quarter of 2008. 
Dividends
As stated in previous years, the Board intends to devote the Company’s financial
resources to business development. This intention, which the Board believes is in the
best interest of the shareholders has continued during 2007. The Board does not expect
to declare a dividend during the Company’s continuing development.
Management
Following the successful growth and encouraging signs of the Company’s Medical
business, the Board decided to promote Nick Bettles to the position of Chief Executive.
Richard Harpum retired and left the Company in November 2007.
I would like to thank Richard for all his efforts and commitment during his three years
as Chief Executive.
We further strengthened our management team with the appointment of a new
Technical Manager in September 2007. In addition to this, an Operations Manager has
been appointed in March 2008.
Employees
We continue to invest in our workforce to ensure we have the appropriate skills with
which to grow the business. On behalf of the Board, I thank our staff most sincerely for
their continued support.
Outlook
Trading in the first two months of 2008 has been positive, with strong sales as single
large orders are completed and good margins delivering an operating profit for the
first time in the company’s history. However, we do not expect this to continue in the
immediate future.
The Medical business, outside the USA, is encouraging, with increasing order flow. We
anticipate the same rate of growth in this sector in the year ahead.
In our Industrial and Construction businesses, the change of strategy involves us in
concentrating on standardised product ranges, with improvements in efficiency and
higher margins on a lower volume of sales.
Whilst we believe we are still several quarters from breaking even, we anticipate
significant progress in the year ahead.
MARK ABRAHAMS
Chairman
27 March 2008
5
Chairman’s Statement (continued)
