 Overview
The Company saw modest sales growth during 2008 at 7%, however operating losses
were reduced by over 40% due to the improved margins achieved and containment of
overhead costs.
Order intake in the Medical sector outside the USA grew by 47%, but there were
negligible orders received from the Smiths Medical due to them using up their start-up
stock.
Despite a fall in sales as our Industrial market activities have been realigned,
percentage margins from this sector have increased and give us a platform to drive
forward in 2009.
Sales and marketing:
In the Medical sector orders for our CosyTherm neonatal warming systems more than
doubled the levels achieved in 2007 as the product has become more established
outside the UK. A distribution agreement for this range in the USA has been signed and
initial stocks were delivered towards the end of 2008. Following promotional activity
in the second half of 2008 a significant amount of interest has been generated in the US
market, with over 100 requests for clinical evaluation.
The UK market for operating theatre patient warming systems showed over 50% year-
on-year order growth, as acceptance of our technology as an alternative to traditional
methods continues to spread. The NICE guideline on this subject, issued during 2008,
has further stimulated customers to look at this clinical area and there has been an
increasing flow of enquiries generated as a result. The NICE report includes
recommendations that would require two and a half times the number of NHS patients
to be warmed, significantly increasing the cost benefits of switching from traditional
disposable products to Inditherm. This looks set to further accelerate uptake in the UK
market during 2009.
Smiths Medical’s end-user sales in the US market during the year were disappointing,
and have been supplied out of their start-up stock. They have not met the contractual
targets and therefore the distribution agreement has reverted to a non-exclusive basis.
Discussions with partners who can provide parallel or alternative routes to market for
our operating room product range are well progressed and should allow the Company
to move forward in the US market in the year ahead.
In addition to our change in strategic focus for the Industrial business, the organisation
has been rationalised and strengthened during the year, involving significant changes
to the sales team. We have recruited an Operations Manager to ensure that maximum
efficiency is obtained in manufacturing and improved control of larger customer
projects is implemented. A Marketing Manager has been appointed to drive forward
sales growth in both the Industrial and Construction sectors and ensure that the
strategic objectives are met.
In the Construction sector we have not promoted our technology aggressively in 2008
whilst we have developed robust products, suited to the harsh user environment. We
have introduced a number of standard products during the year, which are making it
6
INDITHERM plc
Chief Executive’s Review easier to demonstrate the benefits offered by Inditherm technology, particularly in the
precast concrete markets. We are in negotiation with a growing number of customers
who are looking at implementation of Inditherm heating in their processes and believe
that this market will show progress during the coming year. We hope that the recent
Sustainability Award received by Inditherm from the British Precast Association will
help to highlight the advantages our technology can offer in this application.
Product development
A number of new products have been developed during the year to add to our Medical
product range and these will be launched during the first quarter of 2009. These will
improve our growth potential, particularly in the neonatal markets.
An advanced neonatal cot for use in Special Care Baby Units has been designed, which
integrates with our CosyTherm warming range. This provides additional
opportunities for growth with a customer base where we are already becoming well
known and respected. This fills a market niche where there are a limited number of
competing products.
We have identified a new application for our SpeedHeat heat therapy system to deliver
warming during chemotherapy treatment. The product has been adapted to meet the
clinical needs for this treatment. The market development is still in its early stages, but
indications are that this could generate a valuable revenue stream that will help to
underpin our historic medical growth rates.
Two new technological additions have been implemented within our Industrial
product ranges that will give us further advantages, particularly in the process
industry applications. One delivers advanced monitoring of process conditions using
a bus-based system and allows the customer to have precise control that is not possible
with other technologies. The second is a novel insulation and cladding method that is
attracting particular interest from some of the major food and confectionery
businesses. We believe these will be enabling technologies that will add to the benefits
customers can derive from using Inditherm products and thus help increase our
conversion rates.
Further work has been directed at increasing the number of standard products for the
industrial and construction markets. This should help us to deliver our strategic goals
of higher margins and repeat business.
Operations
Following the appointment of our new Operations Manager during the first half of the
year, we have been focussed on improving efficiency and better project management,
to support the drive for higher margins particularly in the industrial area. We continue
to be perceived by our customers as delivering high quality products and service.
With the growing demand for medical products we have adapted our manufacturing
philosophy and can now typically offer products from stock to ensure optimum turn-
round on orders. The improved response time, which flows from production
standardisation achieved, has been well received by our distributor network.
7
Chief Executive’s Review (continued) Outlook
Growth in the Medical markets has continued during 2008, and it is anticipated that
this will progress further in the year ahead. Significant focus will be placed on driving
forward business in the USA but we will no longer depend on Smiths Medical alone.
Profitability in this sector is expected to remain good and we will devote our energy to
achieving faster growth wherever possible.
The improved margins we are realising from our Industrial products put us in a much
better position to make this area of the business profitable. We believe that some
further progress on margins can be achieved in the year ahead. With a stronger team
in place we anticipate that we can now start to grow sales again during 2009.
We believe that the business is now in a position to exploit opportunities in the
Construction sector, although this is still in the early stages of commercial
implementation. Focus will be directed primarily on the pre-cast concrete sector.
NICK BETTLES
Chief Executive
26 March 2009
8
INDITHERM plc
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
