 Overview
Our strategy of targeting higher value-added applications and eliminating unprofitable
work resulted in a small net increase in sales but with gross profit 37% higher, year on
year. The results for the year have benefited from the sale of launch stocks to Smiths
Medical.
Growth of the Medical sector has continued. We have seen end-user sales in the USA,
albeit at a slow rate, and this indicates that a market there exists which can be grown.
The redirection and focus in the Industrial sector has delivered the increase in margins
sought but with reduced sales as a consequence. Resources have now been put in place
to facilitate growth of this sector.
The outcome for the second half was in line with expectations at the Interim stage. The
combination of improved margins and contained overheads has resulted in a
significantly reduced rate of cash consumed from operating activities compared to 2007
with a year-end cash balance of £3,115k (2007: £3,485k).
Results
Turnover for the year rose by 7% to £1,983k (2007: £1,861k), due to growth in Medical
sales including start-up stock for Smiths Medical. This was in line with expectations
following the results reported for the first half of the year.
Overheads were kept under control during the year, and were £1,607k (2007: £1,605k
before exceptional costs), resulting in a 37% improvement in operating loss before
exceptional items at £502k (2007: £799k). With no exceptional costs (2007: £128k) and net
interest income of £178k (2007: 213k), the post-tax loss was £283k (2007: £699k).
The year end cash balance was £3,115k (2007: £3,485k), representing a net outflow from
operating activities of £263k (2007: £1,044k).
Operations:
Medical orders excluding the USA grew by 47% over the previous year. Smiths have not
ordered sufficient quantities to maintain their contractual right to exclusivity and the
agreement therefore has become non-exclusive in accordance with existing provisions.
Additional channels to market in the USA are being actively progressed and national
distribution for our neonatal warming range has been secured during 2008. Our export
orders from distributors and overseas partners outside the US grew by over 40% from
the previous year, indicating that this area is continuing to develop well. UK orders grew
by over 50% with increasing acceptance of our technology in the market. We anticipate
that the NICE Guideline on perioperative hypothermia, which was published during the
year, will help us to continue this growth.
Sales effort in the Industrial markets in 2008 focused on business rationalisation rather
than growth following a reassessment of future potential for profitable growth. The
desired increase in margins has been achieved with the potential for further progress in
that area. We are continuing to pursue the strategy of focus on market sectors where the
value of Inditherm has been established and where we can deliver standard products
and gain repeat business. This is showing some early signs of success.
Commercial exploitation of our technology in the pre-cast concrete industry was modest
during the year; however we have now managed to develop a number of standard
products that are starting to generate growing interest. A clear value proposition for
4
INDITHERM plc
Chairman’s Statement customers in the pre-cast concrete market has now been established and should allow us
to begin to develop this sector during the year ahead.
The football pitch heating at the new Aston Villa training ground was completed in 2008.
The club staff have expressed their satisfaction with the performance, particularly during
the protracted cold spell around the turn of the year. The margins realised in this
business area have been unsatisfactory and any future projects will only be undertaken
if they can be priced to make a sufficient contribution.
Dividends
As stated in previous years, the Board intends to devote the Company’s financial
resources to business development. This intention, which the Board believes is in the best
interest of the shareholders, has continued during 2008 and the Board does not expect to
declare a dividend during the Company’s continuing development.
Management
We further strengthened our management team with the appointment of a Marketing
Manager for the Industrial and Construction businesses at the end of 2008.
Employees
We continue to invest in our workforce to ensure we have the appropriate skills with
which to grow the business. On behalf of the Board, I thank our staff most sincerely for
their continued support.
Outlook
Growth of the Medical sector, excluding the US, remains encouraging, with increasing
order flow. We anticipate the same rate of growth in this sector in the year ahead. In the
US we are beginning to see end-user sales and in addition expect to exploit alternative
channels to market than Smiths Medical. We continue to believe there is a significant
market to develop and exploit but the pace is unlikely to be rapid.
In the Industrial and Construction sectors the change of strategy instigated from the
beginning of 2008 has continued to deliver higher margins, albeit on reduced sales. We
anticipate that we will now be able to grow sales during the year ahead, with a focus on
the sectors where we can offer standardised products and gain repeat business. We have
a number of significant Industrial prospects where we hope to see successful conversion
over the next six months. This outcome will help shape the direction for the Industrial
business.
The world economic situation and global recession is undoubtedly having some impact
in slowing the take-up of new projects. This does not affect interest in our technology
and solutions, but does inevitably slow down the uptake.
We demonstrated in the first half of 2008 how close the balance is now between profit
and loss in the business. In addition, our improved control of margin and cost slowed
the rate of cash consumption. This gives us confidence that we can reach break-even with
our own resources in the foreseeable future.
MARK ABRAHAMS
Chairman
26 March 2009
5
Chairman’s Statement (continued)
