 Overview
With difficult trading conditions in all markets, 2009 saw a fall in sales and higher
losses. However, with actions taken and an improving market situation we saw some
improvement in the second half of the year.
In our Medical business sales through distributors showed modest growth in the first
half but returned close to historic growth rates in the second half. The UK market
remained flat, but with steady growth in enquiries in the last six months.
The additional focus introduced to our Industrial business during 2009 has delivered
good orders growth towards the end of the year. Further cost reductions in this part of
our operations have been made, in line with our target of concentrating on very
specific market segments and key customers.
Sales & Marketing
In the Medical business we saw further growth, but at a lower rate than we have
achieved historically. Our UK sales of operating theatre patient warming systems
remained static as cost constraints in the NHS restricted investment. A NICE guideline
published in 2008 introduced recommendations to warm more patients during surgical
procedures; however, Inditherm was only briefly mentioned as a potential technology.
There remains significant pressure to warm more patients and, in the current economic
climate within the health service Inditherm has a compelling case to offer. We have
been promoting the cost advantages of Inditherm’s solution and the steady increase in
enquiries over the last six months suggests that we are now being more readily
considered as a route to compliance with NICE guidelines.
We received an award for Suppliers Delivering Sustainability in February 2010, which
recognised our contribution to reducing cost, improving clinical performance and
reducing environmental impact. We believe that this will further help to highlight our
technology within the NHS. 
Many of our overseas Medical distributors have also seen difficult market conditions
in 2009, with decision-making stalled. There was no growth in this part of our business
during the first six months of the year, but we were encouraged by a return to historic
growth rates in the second half. Our distributor conference in March 2009 was attended
by 28 delegates and was very successful, stimulating renewed activity from a number
of our overseas partners. We are now in the process of expanding our operations in the
Middle East, where the medical equipment market appears more buoyant than most
other regions, which should give us further opportunities to secure continued export
growth.
The USA market has continued to prove slow, with constraints on spending in the
capital equipment sector. We now have a second distributor for our operating room
product range; they are active in the market and working to strengthen national sales
coverage for our products. Smiths Medical remains a non-exclusive distributor, but the
majority of their sales have been made from their existing start-up stocks acquired in
2008.
The Industrial business, including construction applications, has been most badly
affected by the global economic situation, with protracted decision making and project
delays. We do not believe we have lost any significant amount of business to
5
Chief Executive’s Review competition. We have reduced our operational overheads for this segment during 2009
and further emphasised our concentration on market segments and key customers
where we can offer greatest added value and thus the most compelling sales
proposition.
Our product offering has been strengthened by the integration of a new food grade
cladding system and an advanced control and monitoring package. We have seen that
this is helping to generate more interest in the Inditherm solution, particularly in the
food and confectionery markets. We have been working closely with a number of
major international manufacturers to gain formal approvals and endorsement of our
technology in their businesses and have achieved a number of successful outcomes.
Several projects are ongoing and we see prospects for repeat business in a number of
areas. This follows on from a strong order intake at the end of 2009 which allowed us
to carry an order book of over £200k into 2010.
Product Development
A number of new medical products were released in 2009 and others are going through
final medical device approvals. These are expected to improve our growth potential in
the year ahead. We have introduced design changes on our patient warming systems
during the year that have allowed us to deliver improved clinical product
performance.
Our advanced process monitoring solution has been further developed in 2009, giving
us unrivalled control for temperature critical processes. Our Inditherm
Pro
insulation
and cladding system has been installed on a number of projects during the year and
has attracted significant interest and very positive feedback from a number of major
manufacturers, particularly in the confectionery industry. These two additions are
proving to be enabling technologies that add to the drive for customers to convert to
Inditherm heating technology.
We have expanded our range of standard container heating jackets, with the addition
of a high power variant. This should give further opportunity for growth of this sector.
Operations
As part of the process of structuring the business to match market conditions, we
combined the manufacturing and technical management roles during 2009. Our
further move to focus on core applications has also allowed us to devolve some of the
production management processes and reduce our operational overheads during the
year. 
Our policy of holding reasonable levels of standard medical products in stock has
allowed us to continue to offer short delivery times and fast turn-round of orders
received. 
We believe that we continue to be perceived by our customers as delivering high
quality products and service and continue to receive positive feedback.
We actively manage the preservation of our cash resources and the cash implications
of business decisions, forecasts and business plans are monitored closely.
6
INDITHERM plc
Chief Executive’s Review (continued) Outlook
The increase in enquiries and orders in our Medical business over the last six months
gives us optimism that we can return to historic growth levels in 2010. We continue to
pursue acceleration of progress in the USA with our distributors there, but will ensure
that our resource allocation is balanced so that we maximise the global market
opportunities.
The pressure on budgets in the NHS and many overseas healthcare systems, combined
with our marketing of the cost savings our technology offers, is driving up the interest
in our products, particularly in the operating room sector. We believe that take-up will
increase in the year ahead, although it is difficult to know how fast the decision-
making process will progress.
Our approach in the Industrial markets has yielded improved order intake at the end
of 2009. Work we are doing with key customers in our core target sectors should lead
to further progress in 2010 and we are already in discussions about a number of
significant projects.
NICK BETTLES
Chief Executive
25 March 2010
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements contained in this document constitute forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements involve risks,
uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Inditherm plc to be materially
different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such statements. Such risks, uncertainties and
other factors include, among others: general economic conditions and the business environment.
7
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
