 In the Medical segment, Inditherm specialises in warming solutions to prevent hypothermia and
heat therapy systems for the treatment of injuries and wounds. Patient warming products are
primarily used in operating theatres, recovery and intensive care, accident & emergency, and neo-
natal applications. They offer improved clinical performance, combined with significant cost
savings over traditional technologies. Products are sold internationally through a network of
distributors. 
In the Industrial market, Inditherm specialises in providing heating solutions for critical
temperature management and frost protection for pipelines, portable storage containers, tanks,
valves and pumps. Inditherm supplies many well-known multi-national companies in the food
and beverage, confectionery, pharmaceutical, chemical, oil and gas, and water utility industries.
Inditherm uses significantly less energy than traditional electrical trace heating, hot water or steam
systems. In addition, the business has developed significant expertise in providing unheated
insulation solutions. During 2009 a digital control system (Inditherm Plus) and a food grade
cladding system (Inditherm Pro) has been developed and approved by a number of confectionery
companies to date.
In the Construction market, Inditherm working in conjunction with Sheffield Hallam University,
has developed solutions to accelerate concrete curing. Initial commercial focus has concentrated on
the pre-cast concrete producers where process improvement provides the benefit of improved
cycle times, reduction in lost production and significant savings on energy and cement costs.
1
INDITHERM Target Markets
Based near Rotherham, South Yorkshire and incorporated in the United Kingdom, Inditherm plc
designs, manufactures and installs heating solutions using the Company’s innovative, patented,
low voltage, carbon-based conductive polymer technology (CPT). This provides a flexible heating
material that can be fitted over a wide variety of shapes, as well as laid out flat to heat large areas
from above or below. Running from a low voltage (6V to 50V) DC or AC power supply, it can reach
temperatures of up to 120°C.
Applications for the technology are numerous but the Company is focusing on selected
applications and market areas where there are perceived to be significant growth opportunities.
Inditherm already has an established track record in medical warming solutions to prevent
hypothermia and heat therapy systems. In industrial process industries, such as confectionery,
food and chemicals, CPT is ideal for heating pipes, tanks, valves and pumps.
INDITHERM at a glance
