 Overview
The economic conditions during 2009 were even more challenging than originally
anticipated and this continued into the second half of the year.
The Medical business continued growth but at rates lower than in recent years. There has
been modest take-up in the USA following the launch stock sales seen in 2008.
The redirection and focus in the Industrial sector has continued to deliver improved
contribution margins, albeit on reduced sales. The cost base was reduced during the year
to match market conditions. In doing so we focussed our resources on those applications
where we already have proven credibility and in the latter part of the year the benefit of
this approach started to show.
The outcome for the second half was in line with expectations at the Interim stage;
however there have been encouraging signs of improvement during recent months.
Results
Revenue for the year fell by 42% to £1,152k (2008: £1,983k), with a large part of this
difference due to sales of start-up stock for Smiths Medical in 2008. This was in line with
expectations following the results reported for the first half of the year. Gross profit was
41% (2008: 56%) due largely to under-recovery of fixed costs with lower turnover.
Overheads were kept under control during the year, and before exceptional costs were
£1,577k (2008: £1,607k), resulting in operating loss before exceptional items at £1,039k
(2008: £502k). Exceptional costs of £109k were associated with restructuring during the
year (2008: nil) and with net interest income much lower at £27k (2008: £179k), the post-
tax loss was £1,082k (2008: £283k).
The year end cash balance was £2,092k (2008: £3,115k), representing a net outflow from
operating activities of £981k (2008: £263k).
Operations
Overall Medical orders in 2009 grew by 10%. This comprised 18% growth in orders from
our non-US distributors, diluted by a flat performance in the UK. Sales in the USA
amounted to £31k. Spending pressures within the NHS temporarily halted what has
previously been a steady growth trend. We recently received a national award for this
part of our range and hope that this will help in overcoming reluctance in some parts to
adopt Inditherm technology to meet the National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE)
guidelines.
We continued our strategy of focusing on specific key areas in the Industrial markets.
Contribution margins again increased and were nine precentage points higher than the
previous year, in line with our strategy to concentrate on applications where we can offer
clear benefit for the customer at competitive prices. Restructuring of this part of the business
during the year has helped to align costs to the less diverse and time-consuming areas of
activity. We are working closely with a few major international companies and secured a
significant order at the end of 2009 as a result. We anticipate further progress in sales
penetration during 2010.
We have seen a steady increase in enquiry levels over the last six months. Order flow
improved in the second half and was 30% up on the first half. We took Industrial orders
for over £200k in the last two months of 2009 that will be fulfilled in 2010.
The second half operating loss before exceptional items was 22% lower than the first half,
reflecting both the reduction in overheads and an improvement in performance from
medical distributors.
3
Chairman’s Statement Dividends
As stated in previous years, the Board intends to devote the Company’s financial
resources to business development. This intention, which the Board believes is in the best
interest of the shareholders, has continued during 2009 and the Board does not expect to
declare a dividend during the Company’s continuing development.
Management
As part of restructuring of the business during the year we combined the technical and
manufacturing management roles. 
Employees
We continue to invest in our workforce to ensure we have the appropriate skills with
which to grow the business. On behalf of the Board, I thank our staff most sincerely for
their continued support.
Outlook
Growth of the Medical sector during 2009 continued, but at a lower rate than in recent
years. We saw a 49% increase in distributor orders in the second half of 2009 over the first
half and this trend has continued into the start of 2010. The UK market for our medical
products did not grow as expected, however prospect levels have been rising steadily
over the last six months and we are expecting these to translate into order growth in 2010.
Market penetration in the USA remains slow and whilst we continue to pursue this with
our distribution partners we are redirecting some of our efforts to other overseas markets
where the opportunities for progress in the short term seem greater.
In our Industrial sectors the change of strategy instigated in 2008 has continued to deliver
higher contribution margins. Our focus with a number of key manufacturers in the
confectionery, chemicals and pre-cast concrete sectors has yielded several technical
approvals and endorsements of our technology. We expect further progress in the year
ahead with potential for repeat business with key customers.
The world economic situation has undoubtedly had a major impact in slowing the take-
up of new projects in the last year. However, there are signs that matters are improving
in our Industrial markets. Pressure on budgets in the UK’s NHS is driving up enquiry
levels for our products due to the combination of improved clinical care with reduced
cost, but it is not yet fully clear what level of conversion to orders can be achieved.
The business environment was more challenging than expected in 2009; however, we
have seen improvements in order intake over recent months. In the last three months
order intake has been twice the level of the comparable period in the previous year and
cash consumption has halved. If this continues we believe that we can reach break-even
with our own resources in the foreseeable future.
MARK ABRAHAMS
Chairman
25 March 2010
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements contained in this document constitute forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements involve risks,
uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Inditherm plc to be materially different
from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors
include, among others: general economic conditions and the business environment.
4
INDITHERM plc
Chairman’s Statement (continued)
