 Our resource base has grown to over 10 million ounces, an increase of
71% on last year, and we have demonstrated that the majority of this has
the potential to be mined economically. 
A T op 10 African Gold Mine
Prior to joining the Company, I recognised that the Yaoure Gold Project
(“Yaoure”) in Côte d’Ivoire had the potential to be much more than the small
oxide deposit many thought it was. The project had been previously
operated by Compagnie Mini ѐre d’Afrique (CMA), which had mined oxide
material from the CMA pit with an average headgrade of 3.9g/t.
Subsequently Amara acquired the project and continued to mine oxides in
the lower grade Yaoure Central pit, but drilling results showed grades in the
underlying sulphide zone of up to 3.5g/t over 30 metres. Upon becoming
Executive Chairman in April 2012, and with the support of our Group
Exploration Manager, Peter Brown, I immediately doubled the number of
drilling rigs on site and began a systematic exploration programme across
the deposit. As a result, Amara’s resources at Yaoure grew from 249,000
ounces to over six million ounces in an 18 month period, and the deposit
remains open along strike and down dip with the potential to grow further. 
It is safe to say that this has significantly exceeded my expectations.
The results of the Preliminary Economic Assessment (“PEA”) have
confirmed that not only will Yaoure deliver compelling financial returns, but
when in production it should rank as one of the top 10 largest gold mines 
in Africa. With a post-tax Internal Rate of Return (“IRR”) of 32% and a 
post-tax Net Present Value (“NPV”) of US$688 million at a gold price of
US$1,250 per ounce and a discount rate of 8%, Yaoure offers average
production of 325,000 ounces per annum over a 12 year mine life. Due to
the excellent existing infrastructure, including low cost power, total cash
costs are forecast at just US$655 per ounce and all-in sustaining costs 
are US$691 per ounce.
Based upon the 8 million tonne per annum (“Mtpa”) scenario, the total
payback period for the project is 2.4 years. Importantly, the project’s
economics remain robust at significantly lower gold prices, with a post-tax
NPV of US$406 million and a post-tax IRR of 23% at a US$1,100 per
ounce gold price and an 8% discount rate.
T estimony to Yaoure’s Potential
In order to continue to drive Yaoure along the value curve, Amara
announced a placing and open offer on 21 March 2014, which raised 
£18.5 million (US$30.5 million). As a result of the placing, Amara is fully
funded to the point of delivering a Pre-Feasibility Study (“PFS”) for 
Yaoure in Q1 2015. 
I was delighted that the fundraising received encouraging support from
both new and existing investors, which is testimony to Yaoure’s potential
and strengthens Amara’s shareholder base. An open offer was included as
part of the fundraising as we felt it was particularly important to give our
significant retail investor base the opportunity to participate in Amara’s
growth, as well as our institutional shareholders, in recognition for their
loyalty over the past challenging year. Any additional proceeds raised from
the open offer will be used to support the delivery of a Bankable Feasibility
Study (“BFS”).
Creating Growth for our Shareholders
The majority of the proceeds of the fundraising will be used to advance
Yaoure, with US$1.3 million allocated to expand the current in-pit resource
by targeting ‘information gaps’ in the resource area and US$8.4 million to
increase confidence in the resource by upgrading it from Inferred to the
Indicated category. Based on this drilling, I look forward to delivering two
Mineral Resource updates for the project in Q3 and Q4 2014, and with the
anticipated delivery of the PFS in Q1 2015, we plan to announce a maiden
reserve for the project. A further US$4.8 million has been allocated to
upgrade a portion of the Indicated resource to Measured, which I believe
will be an additional value driver for the Company. Following the delivery 
of the PFS, we will be well on track to completing a BFS in H2 2015. 
A Second Strong Growth Opportunity
The Baomahun Gold Project (“Baomahun”) in Sierra Leone is one of the
highest grade projects in West Africa. In June 2013 we completed the
Feasibility Study (“FS”) and demonstrated that the project is robust and
economically viable at a gold price of US$1,350 per ounce. Following the
FS, the objective of the first phase of the optimisation work was to
demonstrate that the high grade core could be exploited in a less capital
intensive manner, while retaining the long term upside potential available
from accessing the deeper resources from underground. This approach
ensures the project generates robust returns for all stakeholders, improving
the longevity of the mine. Following the placing we will commence a 
small-scale, highly targeted drilling campaign to increase Baomahun’s 
in-pit resources and continue to optimise our upfront capital estimate,
aiming to deliver the same strong returns from an open pit only scenario
and de-risking the underground targets. 
A Safe Pair of Hands
Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Board members for their hard work,
dedication and valuable guidance throughout the year. Despite difficult
market conditions, our Company has adapted well and we are now fully
funded to deliver our next major phase of growth. I look forward to
updating you over the course of 2014.
John McGloin
Executive Chairman
14 April 2014
Chairman’s Statement
Company Overview / 02
Amara Mining plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
“ In what has been an incredibly
turbulent year for the gold sector,
Amara has continued to demonstrate
the value in its West African portfolio
of gold projects. ”
