 Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Company Overview / 03
Amara Mining plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Despite the challenge of a weakening gold price, by the end of the year 
we had achieved all of these goals, while also reducing our cost base
significantly. I believe this will ensure that our Company is well-positioned
to adapt to an unpredictable market environment.
Production Strengthening in 2014
My key focus for the year was to deliver a smooth transition from the
Kalsaka Gold Mine (“Kalsaka”) to the Sega Gold Project (“Sega”). The 28%
fall in the gold price during 2013 created a number of challenges, including
reducing the mine life. While there is still a significant amount of low grade
ore at Kalsaka/Sega, it is no longer economic and accordingly a non-cash
impairment charge of US$14.7 million has been recognised against the
project’s carrying value of US$45 million.
Management took the decision to stop mining at Kalsaka in July 2013 as 
it had become unprofitable due to the combination of lower grade ore
(1.13g/t in H1 2013 compared to 1.26g/t in H1 2012) and reduced
throughput (773kt in H1 2013 compared to 815kt in H1 2012) combined
with the lower gold price.
Trucking from Sega commenced in September 2013, 16 months after the
acquisition of the project from Orezone Gold Corporation was completed.
While this is a rapid timeline from acquisition to production, the integration
of Sega occurred later than expected due to permitting delays. As
anticipated, Q4 2013 was the strongest quarter of the year for
Kalsaka/Sega as the higher grade material from Sega was realised.  
Full year production was 42,348 ounces in 2013 and we closed the year
with US$20.0 million of cash and liquid assets. Production is anticipated to
strengthen in 2014 with full year guidance of 60,000-70,000 ounces. Amara
expects to generate robust cash flow even in the current gold price
environment as the Sega open pits were re-optimised at a gold price of
US$1,100/oz in Q2 2013, reflecting the Company’s low risk approach.
A Changing Focus
Production is due to be completed at Kalsaka/Sega in Q1 2015 and I am
committed to unlocking the remaining value from the project and delivering
an efficient closure. While we are evaluating a number of opportunities to use
the heap leach plant going forwards, removing the production aspect of our
story may help to crystallise where the value of Amara is truly found: in our
growth assets.
Yaoure is one of the most exciting development assets in West Africa, with
large scale, long life, low cost production, and driving it along the value
curve is likely to deliver the best returns for our shareholders. The
opportunity exists to add significant value to the project for a relatively
small investment and I am determined not to dilute our shareholders’
interest in Yaoure by buying a small, near-term production asset that 
would require substantial management attention. Only a very compelling 
near-term production opportunity would balance this risk of dilution.
Cost Efficiency Measures Implemented
Following a year of strong investment in 2012, one of the key steps we 
took in 2013 to future proof Amara was to conduct a business review and
consequently implement cost savings across all areas of the Company. 
We achieved a 25% reduction in headcount between the 2012 year end
and the 2013 year end, which is expected to generate an annualised 
saving in excess of US$1.5 million. 
The Board accepted 15% salary cuts, with sliding scale cuts for
senior/middle management, equating to an additional annualised saving of
US$650,000, which gives a total annualised saving of over US$2.1 million.
Further cuts were implemented in general and administration (“G&A”)
expenditure, delivering a 25% saving compared to FY2012. Amara’s
strategy is to solidify its financial position and ensure the optimal use of
cash flow and this will continue throughout 2014, with further cost saving
measures continuing to be identified.
Working in Partnership with West Africa
One area we continued to prioritise was our investment in our host
countries. Having built and operated mines in Africa for the past 14 years, 
I have a thorough appreciation of the need for a company to maintain its
social licence to operate.
During the year we paid a total of US$8.2 million in tax in Burkina Faso,
including corporate tax, royalties and indirect taxation. We also contributed
directly to Côte d’Ivoire, Sierra Leone and Liberia in respect of indirect
taxes paid, despite our operations not yet generating revenue. We have
continued to play an active role in community initiatives, focusing on our
three key interest areas of education, health and sustainable livelihood
development, and fortifying our partnerships with the governments and
local people of our host countries.
Despite the challenges we faced in 2013, we enter 2014 in good shape, 
as a result of the targets we’ve delivered upon, the partnerships we’ve
formed and the recent placing and open offer. I would like to thank all of 
my colleagues for their resilience, hard work and enthusiasm during what
has been a difficult year for the entire gold sector, and the Board for their
good counsel. 2014 will be another transformational year for Amara and 
we are well-positioned to deliver on our growth potential.
Peter Spivey
Chief Executive Officer
14 April 2014
“ At the start of 2013 we outlined three
key milestones for Amara during the
year ahead: the delivery of a Mineral
Resource update at Y aoure, the
completion of the Baomahun FS and
the integration of Kalsaka and Sega.   ”
