 2
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
It is my pleasure to present to shareholders the Fourth Annual Report and Consolidated 
Financial Statements of Indus Gas Limited (the “Company”), covering the financial year from 
1
st
 April 2011 to 31
st
 March 2012.
During the year 2011-12, the main focus of the Company has been to complete SGL Field 
Development. I am pleased to note that the Company has substantially completed the SGL 
Field Development including installation of the required gas production facilities and drilling 
of a large number of production wells to deliver contracted quantities of gas. This will expand 
the revenues of the Company in a significant manner and will provide financing for further 
appraisal investments and will meet repayment obligations under the contracted debt facilities.
Further, in view of requirement to complete the appraisal activities under the PSC in a timely 
manner, the Company has focused on drilling appraisal wells to maximize the potential 
development area to be retained out of current 4,026 km
2
 discovery area. The Company 
has drilled several new wells and tested previously drilled wells in addition to drilling new 
prospects to meet this requirement. 
The gas market scenario in India is undergoing a significant change. Due to supply shortages 
from largest producing field in KG basin, India had to import a large quantity of gas on prices 
much higher than domestic prices. The domestic gas producers are increasingly looking for 
price parity with imported gas. Looking into the energy scarcity in the country and huge 
amount of locked investment in gas based industries like power; the price of domestic gas is 
expected to increase sharply over medium to long term. In the short term also, some correction 
in the average gas prices realized by the Company may be possible. 
The Company has received continued financial support from existing lenders to enable it to 
make the required investment in the Block and discharge all its repayment obligations. 
As I look forward for one more eventful year, I thank all our stakeholders, partners and lenders 
for providing the required support and encouragement. I also like to appreciate the efforts of 
the operator, for success in quest for new reserves as well as commercialisation of the existing 
reserves. 
MARC HOLTZMAN
Chairman
19
th
 September, 2012
