 3
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
We have had another active year and am I pleased to report significant progress across 
several areas. Our stated business plan remains on track and we continue to achieve this while 
maintaining compliance with the terms of our Production Sharing Contract, applicable laws 
and sound standards of health and safety. We have successfully fulfilled all the tasks needed 
to set up the infrastructure for meeting the requirements of enhanced production as per the 
GSPA. We have also continued with our appraisal program and have done significant drilling 
and testing, confirming and establishing further gas presence. The summary of activities since 
April 2011 is described below:
SGL Field Development
During the year, a total quantity of 2,223 mmscf of gas was produced from the field and 
supplied to GAIL. There were no major breakdowns, and all parties met their respective 
obligations under the ‘Take or Pay’ agreement with respect to Phase I of contracted gas supply 
of approximately 7 mmcf/d. This gas has been supplied without CO² removal and GAIL pays 
a price of US$ 4.11 per mmbtu for the Phase I gas supplies.
As per gas sale contract signed with GAIL, the daily gas supply quantities were to be enhanced 
to around 33.5 mmcf, for which the Company needed to install a large gas gathering station 
and processing plant consisting of CO² removal facilities. As per agreement, the price of gas 
is to be revised to US$ 5 per mmbtu once this second phase (Phase II) commences.
While this Phase II gas production was originally scheduled to commence from April 2011, 
this was delayed due to certain technical issues in plant design, fabrication and delays on the 
part of one of key supplier of gas processing plant. The Company has utilized this period to 
increase the capacity of the gas processing plant so that similar delays are not experienced in 
future. Now the Company has completed the Phase II production facilities and is fully geared 
up to expand the sales gas quantity from 7 mmcf/d (without CO² removal) to 33.5 mmscf/d 
(net of CO²). 
For implementation of this Phase II, the required “Gas Gathering Station” (GGS) including 
the gas processing plant, the CO² removal plant and other equipment has been successfully 
installed. Sufficient number of production wells have been drilled and completed and are 
now ready for production to meet the contracted requirements of Phase II. We understand 
that final gas consumer, RRVUNL is in the final stages of implementation of its power plant 
expansion, and the enhanced gas supply is expected to start from Q4’ 2012. However, GAIL 
has been notified of its contracted “take or pay” obligation agreed in gas sales agreement 
and we believe that GAIL will commence “take or pay” payment shortly upon successful testing 
of Phase II facilities. GAIL/RRUVNL has already inspected new facilities and the respective 
parties are making arrangement to commission & test Phase II at the earliest. 4
As part of future gas development, the Company has made further advances in the negotiations 
with GAIL/RRVUNL for supply of additional 28 mmscfd gas for a new 160 MW power plant 
proposed to be set up in Ramgarh, alongside the existing power generation capacity of 
270 MW. The ultimate gas buyer, RRVUNL has already placed order for the power plant in 
anticipation of signing gas sales contract with the Company. 
Drilling, Seismic and Completion Operations
Operational activities over the last year have largely followed Company’s multiple objectives 
in following order of priority:
a) drilling and completion of production wells for SGL Field Development as planned to 
enable meet gas sale contractual requirements, 
b) appraisal drilling covering as large an area as possible to be able to retain maximum 
potential area as development area upon completion of appraisal phase in early 2013 
under the Production Sharing Contract; 
c) testing various wells previously drilled, where gas shows were encountered to enable 
company to increase its reserve base: and 
d) test tight gas recovery potential in addition to conventional gas discovered in the 
Pariwar and B&B formation. 
During the year, the Company has been acquiring in phases significant amounts of new 
seismic data, giving more clarity on the Block potential and providing with additional drilling 
prospects. Some of these new prospects have been drilled/under drilling and a few more are 
proposed to be drilled. Some of the existing zones which had earlier shown encouraging results 
have been further drilled and tested. A good number of gas shows have been encountered 
during the year. 
As the Company has materially expanded its operation, the company has installed a central 
camp & warehousing facility in the Block, and all its logistics are now channelized through this 
base camp. This has resulted in increased operational efficiencies, less wastage and enhanced 
control on both the utilisation as well as availability of critical resources. The time for drilling 
a well has now reduced significantly. This has also brought in efficiency in terms of manpower 
cost, energy costs and to some extent on the overheads. With the reduced time required for 
drilling achieved through efficient rig utilisation, the Company is well set to drill extensively in 
the next year and appraise the maximum area in the block.
The details of the wells, which were either drilled or on which additional activities include the 
following: 5
SGL-P1 (3505m) Gas Producer (Pariwar)
Production well - SGL-P1 (formerly called SGL-P3) was drilled in an optimal position on the 
crest of the SGL field structure and was the first location selected for ongoing development 
of the SGL Field. The well was terminated in the Pariwar Formation at 3505 meters, cased, 
completed & tested and is ready to produce gas from the main ‘P10’ reservoir zone.
SGL-D2 (3211m) Gas Producer (Pariwar)
Production well - SGL-D2 has been drilled on the Western flank of the SGL field area, potentially 
within a separate fault-compartment to the other SGL wells. The well was terminated in the 
Pariwar Formation at 3211 meters, cased, completed & tested and is ready to produce gas 
from the main ‘P10’ reservoir zone.
SGL-5 (3340m) Gas Producer (Pariwar)
Production well - SGL-5 has been drilled in the Northern-most part of the SGL field area. The 
well was terminated in the Pariwar Formation at 3340 meters, cased, completed & tested and 
is ready to produce gas from the main ‘P10’ reservoir zone.
SGL-6 (3325m) Gas shows (Pariwar)
Production well SGL-6 encountered good gas shows within the target Pariwar reservoir zone. 
The well was terminated at 3325 meters, cased and perforated for production from the Key 
‘P10’ reservoir zone with a 3 metre perforation interval (3139-3142m). In spite of good 
drilling and wireline log gas shows, as seen in other nearby wells on the SGL Field that flows 
successfully, this well has not flowed in line with other production wells drilled so far. This 
appears to indicate a mechanical/completion failure and further testing and assessment is 
ongoing currently.
SGL-7 (3230m) Gas Producer (Pariwar)
Production well SGL-7 encountered a pronounced clean sand interval within the main target 
zone of the Pariwar Formation with strong drilling and wire line log gas shows. The well was 
terminated at 3230 meters, cased, completed & tested and is ready to produce gas from the 
main ‘P10’ reservoir zone. 
SGL-8 (3215m) Gas Producer (Pariwar)
Production well SGL-8 encountered gas shows within the target Pariwar reservoir zones. The 
well was terminated at 3215 meter, cased, completed & tested and is ready to produce gas 
from the main ‘P10’ reservoir zone.
Southern Comfort-1 (4478m) Gas Shows (Pariwar / B&B)
Appraisal well - Southern Comfort-1 located in the extreme South area of RJ-ON/6 Block was 
drilled to 4,478 meters and cased/completed. The well successfully recovered gas to surface  6
during open-hole testing of the Pariwar formation, but testing complications arising due to 
sand production meant that this zone could not be fully evaluated. B&B formation with good 
gas shows is awaiting further testing and evaluation in this well. The Company also plans to 
drill another well nearby to re-evaluate Pariwar formation potential.
SX-2 (3390m) Gas Shows (Pariwar)
Appraisal well SX-2 is located in the extreme South-Western area of RJ-ON/6 Block and was 
drilled with the initial primary objective of testing the extent of over pressured gas within B&B 
Formation reservoir target zones. During drilling, the well encountered significant gas shows 
in the Pariwar Formation (secondary) reservoir target zone which successfully flowed gas to 
surface during DST. Accordingly, drilling was terminated at 3390 meters to Pariwar Formation 
and the well was cased for further assessment. However, subsequent tests were inconclusive, 
probably as a result of mechanical/completion issues. The well is currently undergoing further 
assessment.
SU-1 (3885m) Gas Shows (Pariwar / B&B)
The primary aim of appraisal well SU-1 was to assess the presence of over-pressured gas 
within the lower B&B Formation in the extreme Southern parts of Block RJ-ON/6 which were 
encountered in nearby wells INDIAN SHINGLI-1 and SOUTHERN COMFORT-1. The well is 
currently drilling into the B&B Formation at the time of writing with gas shows in the Lower B&B 
and within the Pariwar ‘P10’ reservoir zone highlighted for further assessment in due course.
The results of both appraisal as well as production drilling have been extremely encouraging, 
particularly at Pariwar formation across the entire South Western area of the RJ-ON/6 Block. 
Partly due to this success and partly due to requirement of drilling large number of production 
wells to meet contractual requirements of gas sales, the Company has not been able to focus 
much on B&B formation or tight gas potential. With the appraisal period coming to end in 
early 2013, the company will have to further delay drilling targeted at B&B formation and tight 
gas to late 2013 and beyond, as the immediate focus will continue to be on drilling as many 
appraisal well covering as large area as possible, so that the company can retain maximum 
potential area as development area. Upon conclusion of the appraisal period in 2013, the 
Company will submit an integrated development plan based on accumulated reserves from 
various wells/fields. 
Based on the operational activities till date, the Company has initiated a new reserve report to 
establish additional reserves/resources. The reserve report is expected to be published later 
in the year. 
Financials
During the financial year, the company has sold 2,223 mmscf of gas (without CO2 removal) 
and invoiced revenues of US$ 6.76 mn, resulting into the operating profit of US$ 3.98 mn.  7
The profit before tax was US$ 3.13 mn after considering foreign exchange gain of US$ 
0.10 mn and interest cost of US$ 0.95 mn.
While, the Company is not expected to pay any significant taxes on its income for many years 
in view of the 100% depreciation allowed under Indian income tax act on the capital expenses 
in the Block, the Company has accrued a notional non-cash deferred tax liability of US$ 1.78 
mn as per IFRS requirements. 
Post this deferred tax liability provision, the net profit for the year was US$ 1.36 mn.
The exploration and evaluation assets have increased by US$ 26.89 mn to US$ 41 mn. The 
development assets and other tangible plant and machinery have increased by US$ 39.05 mn 
after considering an amortisation of US$ 1.91 mn for the year.
The current assets (excluding cash) as on 31 March 2012 stood at US$ 8.99 mn, which 
includes US$ 7.95 mn of inventory and US$ 0.80 mn of trade receivables. The current 
liabilities of the Company, excluding the related party liability of US$ 49.40 mn and current 
portion of long term debt of US$ 15.42 mn, stood at US$ 2.71 mn. This comprised mainly 
of deferred revenue of US$ 2.43 mn and accrued expenses and liabilities of US$ 0.26 mn.
As on 31 March, the outstanding term loan of the Company was US$ 96.87 mn, out of which 
US$ 15.42 mn was categorised as short term (repayable within a year) and the remaining 
US$ 81.46 mn has been categorised as long term liability. This liability is part of a US$ 
110mn term loan facility, against which, the company utilized US$ 52.41 mn during the 
year availing almost the entire sanctioned amount of US$110mn. As per agreed terms, the 
repayment of the facility also commenced from August 2011 and company repaid an amount 
of US$ 11.79 mn as per the scheduled repayment plan. 
In view of delay in implementation of phase II, the repayment obligation was met primarily 
through continued financial support from a related company (which has a majority shareholding 
in the Company). Accordingly, the amount payable to related parties have increased by 
US$ 20.77 mn from US$ 81.17 mn in F .Y 2010-2011 to US$ 101.94 mn in F .Y 2012. As on 
31 March 2012, the current portion of related party payable is US$ 49.40 mn whereas the 
non-current portion is US$ 52.54 mn. The non-current portion accrues an interest @6.5% per 
annum, is subordinated to the bank term loan and is repayable (both interest and principle) 
only after the entire term loan availed from the bank lenders have been paid off.
In addition to initial US$110mn term debt facility, the Company received sanction for an 
additional term debt facility of US$ 40 mn from the existing lenders to enable the company to 
repay part of the short term loan to the related party and meet additional capital investment 
requirements during FY 2012-13. The facility carries interest rate of 3 month LIBOR + 4.25% 
till six months from confirmation of achievement of Phase II production of 33.5 mmcf/d and 
3 month LIBOR + 4.00% thereafter. The loan is to be repaid in 28 quarterly instalment of  8
US$ 0.40 mn each commencing from June 2012 and 8 quarterly instalments of US$ 3.60mn 
each commencing from June 2019, with entire facility scheduled to be repaid by March 
2021. The documentation of this facility was signed on 1
st
 March 2012 and the facility was 
completely drawn before June 2012.
The Company expects to meet its capital investment requirements during FY 2012-13, primarily 
from loans and revenues from gas sales. The Company also expects to be able to contract 
additional debt financing from banks/institutions after establishment of additional reserves, 
contracting additional gas supplies and commencement of Phase II production to meet long 
term capital requirements beyond 2012-13.
Outlook
During the next twelve months, we look forward to continued extensive appraisal drilling and 
testing campaign to be able to establish maximum potential development area and additional 
reserves. This will be critical from the perspective of retaining as much prospective area of the 
Block as possible after the appraisal period end in early 2013. It is intended to receive a new 
reserve report by end of 2012. 
Based on the outcome of new reserve report and further appraisal drilling, we will consider 
various development options to be able to exploit gas resources in an integrated manner with 
an eye to maximize gas sales revenues considering Indian gas market dynamics, which are 
changing rapidly and hopefully in the direction of better market prices.
AJAY KALSI
Chief Executive Officer
19
th
 September, 2012 
