 3
CHairman ’s s tatement
It is my pleasure to present to shareholders the Fifth Annual Report and Consolidated Financial 
Statements of Indus Gas Limited (the “Company”), covering the financial year from 1
st
 April 
2012 to 31
st
 March 2013.
The year 2012-13 has been a very eventful one for the Company. The much awaited decision 
of the Government to increase the price of domestic gas has finally come. The domestic gas 
prices will henceforth be based on a formula, according to which the price of domestic gas 
in India for 2014-15 is estimated at US$ 8.4 per mmbtu and for 2015-16 at above US$ 10 
per mmbtu. The prime objective of the Government approved formulae is to synchronise the 
domestic gas prices with the import price of Liquid natural gas in the next few years. The effect 
should be primarily to encourage more oil and gas exploration in the energy starved country. 
The current prices of imported LNG in India is somewhere between US$ 15-18 per mmbtu. 
During the year the Company has also completed the necessary SGL Field Development to 
increase production capacity to meet the Phase II contracted gas sales quantities of around 
33.5 mmcf/d. After completion of Phase II ramp up, the Company has started receiving 
‘Take or Pay (ToP)’ Payments for the enhanced gas quantity as per the agreement. The ToP 
started from 1
st
 October 2012 and since then the Company has been assured of receipts for 
at least 90% of the contracted quantity of 33.5 mmscfd (net of CO2). This ToP arrangement is 
significant in ensuring the servicing of the existing debt obligations, as well as raising further 
resources for the appraisal and further development of the block. 
The Company is also at a very advanced stage of signing another off take contract for 
28 mmscfd (net of CO2) with GAIL on similar terms and conditions as the existing contract, 
except for the price. The ultimate consumer will be the same state power utility which has 
already ordered and received a 160 MW turbine on the strength of the gas to be supplied by 
the Company and its consortium partners. As this will be contracted at an enhanced price, the 
Company expects to more than double its revenues with this contract once supplies under the 
new arrangements commence.
Further, in view of the requirement to complete the appraisal activities under the PSC in a 
timely manner, the Company has focused on drilling appraisal wells to maximize the potential 
development area to be retained out of the current 4,026 km
2
 discovery area. During the year, 
the company has completed 8 appraisal wells across the entire block and the results have 
been quite encouraging. 
The Company has received continued financial support from existing lenders to enable it to 
make the required investment in the Block. Indus has discharged all its repayment obligations 
on a timely basis. The debt of US$ 40 mn sanctioned earlier in the year has been disbursed  4
during the period. The funds raised from new debt were primarily used for appraisal activities 
in the block. 
As we look forward to another eventful year, I would like to thank all our stakeholders, 
partners and lenders for providing the required support and encouragement. I also want to 
recognise the efforts of the operator, for their success in the quest for new reserves as well as 
commercialisation of the existing reserves.
Marc HoltzMan
Chairman
17 September 2013 
