 Infonic plc (formerly known as Corpora plc) | Annual Report 2007 10 infonic.com
Chairman’s Statement
I am delighted to be able to report 
that all of our technologies are selling 
well in our chosen markets. Our 
full-year results clearly demonstrate 
that our innovative software appeals 
to a broad and increasing range 
of multinational customers. 
When reporting half-year results I stated that 
Mark and his team have transformed a research 
and development business into a proﬁ table, sales 
and marketing-led global software corporation. 
The Company is now EBITDA positive which puts 
us in a strong position going forward. 
This has been the single largest challenge of the last 
twenty four month period, however, I am pleased 
to report that the overall value of contracts won and 
delivered during the year, as well as the very healthy 
sales pipeline, shows that they have succeeded 
in achieving their goal and have created a very 
sustainable company. infonic.com Infonic plc (formerly known as Corpora plc) | Annual Report 2007 11
Introduction 
I must commend the entire team for the way that they 
have worked to cope with increased volumes of complex 
customer sales, installations and support. The hard work 
invested and the processes that they have honed during 
2007 will reap dividends in 2008 and beyond.
2008 is off to a strong start with our Document 
Management and T ext Analytics divisions trading 
particularly well. We look forward to building on the 
success of 2007 and the diversity of our product range, 
and customers, gives us conﬁ dence in our ability to 
achieve our ﬁ nancial targets for the year.
Business progress and core strategy
2007 was the critical year in which the Group 
consolidated its position, completed the integration of 
the ﬁ ve businesses we acquired between 2004 and 
2006 under the single Infonic plc brand, and redeﬁ ned 
our strategy around the three core product areas of 
Document Management, Geo-Replication and 
Text Analytics. 
Strengthening our proposition and our team
An important area of focus which has already begun 
to yield results was the strengthening of our UK and 
international sales teams. Simultaneously, we instituted 
substantial cost savings by providing central shared 
administrative functions across the Group. 
The Infonic value proposition, to help our customers 
capture, distribute and analyse important documents 
and text stored within their businesses, remains 
compelling, and a strong differentiator for us in the 
markets in which we operate. 
Continuous programme of investment is bearing fruit
Our heavy investment in research and development, 
such as implementing the key Microsoft SharePoint 
2007 server-to-server replication release for our 
Geo-Replicator product, allowed us to win a landmark 
contract worth £8.3m with the UK Ministry of Defence 
as part of the EDS Atlas consortium.
We also secured strategic partnerships with Konica 
Minolta and Thomson Reuters, increased the number 
of our customers, and sold for the ﬁ rst time into new 
geographical markets, such as France, Germany, 
Switzerland and Norway. Our strong belief in our 
products is supported by the knowledge that they 
are used in a variety of critical environments where 
it is essential to install software engineered to the 
highest standards. 
The strategy is yielding strong results
We recorded strong organic growth with our strategy of 
focusing on core products in tightly deﬁ ned markets and 
geographies. Although our products have global appeal 
it is easy for a company of our size to become too thinly 
spread, therefore, an absolutely essential element of 
our operations revolves around proﬁ table, focused, 
achievable sales activity.
Recognised revenues for the year topped £8.8m, which 
is more than 37.5% higher than the £6.5m recorded in 
for the previous 18 month accounting period, or 49.2% 
higher than the preceding 12 months. 
In addition, our Operating Proﬁ t before depreciation, 
amortisation & exceptional costs was a healthy £2m 
compared with a negative £2.4m in the previous period 
and, importantly, positive cash ﬂ ow from operating 
activities was over £2.2m.
Successful fundraising
In December 2007 we completed a successful 
fundraising which raised £3.1m from institutional 
investors, despite difﬁ cult market conditions for raising 
ﬁ nance. We were particularly pleased that a number of 
sizeable institutions chose to subscribe for shares and 
join our strong and supportive institutional shareholder 
base. We are using the funding to invest further in 
sales and marketing and to enhance the functionality 
of our products. 
Outlook
Whilst organic growth has been sustained and 
continues to be encouraging, it is still central to the 
company’s strategy to consider further acquisitions if we 
identify synergies with potential acquisitions that will be 
earnings enhancing. 
We are monitoring world markets carefully and continue 
to focus, if possible, on niches that can experience rapid 
return on investment from our technologies. We are 
conﬁ dent of continued growth and expansion in 2008, 
built upon the ﬁ rm foundations put in place in 2007. 
Robert Lowe
Guildford
19 May 2008
