 Infonic plc (formerly known as Corpora plc) | Annual Report 2007 12 infonic.com
After three years of acquisition 
activity, 2007 was the year we 
drove our business forward 
through strong organic growth. 
Utilising shared, centralised 
corporate expertise across the 
whole Group, we rolled out major 
new releases for our software solutions, sold into 
new sectors and adopted a coherent uniﬁ ed branding.
We instituted cost savings as a result of the 
centralisation of functions, and ploughed the 
proceeds into investing in our sales force. 
We raised £3.1m towards the end of 2007 which 
will further fuel the development and growth of 
the company.
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s Review infonic.com Infonic plc (formerly known as Corpora plc) | Annual Report 2007 13
Results
The Group’s revenues for the year to 31 December 2007 
were £8.8m (18 months to 31 December 2006: £6.5m), 
up 37.5%, or 49.2% comparing like-for-like trading periods. 
This strong but focused revenue growth, combined with 
careful cost management of our underlying business, 
resulted in a reduction of administrative expenses from 
£8.2m for the 18 months to 31st December 2006 down to 
£6.3m for the current period under review.
Revenue per employee grew from £80,600 in 2006 to 
£113,400 in 2007, an increase of 53.3%.
The Group made an operating proﬁ t before 
depreciation, amortisation and exceptional costs of 
£2m (2006: loss of £2.4m). 
At 31 December 2007 we had £4.4m in cash, which 
has been topped up post year end by the previously 
announced receipt of £3.1m less expenses from a 
placing of ordinary shares.
Geographic coverage
£7.6m or 85.6% of the Group’s recognised revenue was 
generated in the UK, £1.0m or 11.0% in the US, and just 
under £0.3m, or 3.4% in the rest of the world (Europe 
and Asia-Paciﬁ c). 
T owards the end of 2007 we made several key strategic 
hires in North America. We can report strong interest 
from our Singapore operation serving the Asia-Paciﬁ c 
region and an extremely strong pipeline in Germany. 
We hope that all of these regions will form a greater 
proportion of our revenues in 2008. 
Dealing with the three business divisions in turn
Geo-Replicator
Geo-Replicator generated £5.4m of revenue in 2007 
worldwide, representing 60.8% of the Group total. 
Several landmark deals were contracted and delivered 
during the year, most notably with the UK Ministry of 
Defence and the US Department of Defense.
This technology was acquired in its basic form at the 
end of 2005 for £3.9m.
We are pleased that in the last two years we have 
re-engineered the business to produce £7.6m 
of recognisable revenue and £3.3m of proﬁ t 
from operations.
Our Geo-Replicator product, which used to be known as 
iOra, works with Microsoft SharePoint as well as other 
key platforms, such as IBM’s Lotus Notes.
SharePoint is a widely used collaboration and storage 
sharing platform which scales information from the 
workgroup up to the enterprise platform, but it does not 
have any built-in replication ability. 
Infonic’s Geo-Replicator allows data items to be 
replicated quickly across the SharePoint platform 
between the server and laptops and server-to-server. 
This is essential where servers are separated 
geographically and the transmission of data items would 
ordinarily be slow, and also where personnel work 
remotely but need access to replicated information in 
the ﬁ eld. 
Our software uses unique and powerful patented data 
compression and synchronisation technology to give 
effect to this. Our software is relied upon and is 
invaluable in terms of the ﬁ elds our clients operate in, 
such as the armed forces, humanitarian relief, shipping 
and oil companies.  Infonic plc (formerly known as Corpora plc) | Annual Report 2007 14 infonic.com
In November 2007 we launched our Geo-Replicator 
SharePoint 2007 release, which is a major development 
from our previous SharePoint 2003 release. 
The division secured an £8.3m contract win to supply 
Geo-Replicator to the UK Ministry of Defence as part of 
the EDS Atlas consortium directly resulting from this 
SharePoint 2007 release.
During the fourth quarter of 2007 the Board decided to 
defer the recognition of the majority of the deal value of 
the US Navy Collaboration at Sea Program to 2008 due 
to budget allocation delays within the Program. 
However, the Program has informed us that their 
internal delays have no impact on their desire to roll-out 
our software to up to 1,000 servers globally. We look 
forward to completing this installation and continue to 
extend our reach into other programs within the US 
Navy and Marine Corps.
Whilst the main focus of the company’s activities during 
2007 has been server-to-server sales for the SharePoint 
2007 release, we continue to support clients using the 
SharePoint 2003 release and to provide related 
consultancy advice, including to clients such as Fujitsu 
and PwC. This technology leads the market and is 
well-placed to serve a burgeoning market for software-
based information replication. 
Document Management
In 2007 our Document Management division generated 
£2.8m in revenue, 31.6% of the Group’s total revenue. 
This division was acquired at the beginning of 2006, 
since when we have enhanced the offering and almost 
doubled sales growth. During the 30 month period to 
31st December 2007 the division generated £1.1m in 
proﬁ t from operations, against a purchase price of £1.4m.
This is an established product line for the Group, 
providing consistent revenues, but with opportunities for 
future growth. 
Our proprietary Document Manager software (formerly 
known as T okOpen) enables the digital capture, storage, 
search and retrieval of any type of document, including 
scanned images, word documents, e-mails and pdfs. 
Our software allows businesses to dispense with hard 
copy ﬁ ling and stores documents in secure folder 
systems which permitted users can access 
simultaneously.
We have continued to invest in and develop these 
products. In September 2007 we launched the new look 
T okOpen 2.4, which has a new Microsoft Vista-style 
appearance and interface. 
In 2007 we also launched our .Net Document Manager 
version, which provides enhanced functionality in a web-
based version. 
We also established some important strategic alliances 
to promote the sales of this product in 2007. We became 
the preferred supplier of Document Management 
software to Iris Enterprise, in connection with its 
Exchequer ﬁ nance accounting package, and we entered 
into new partnering relationships with PS Financials and 
RDT in relation to their packages. 
Most signiﬁ cantly, we became the preferred supplier of 
Document Management software under a new strategic 
partnership with Konica Minolta Business Solutions, the 
imaging and printing company.
During the year we were pleged to deliver some 
important Document Management solutions to clients 
including Norwich Primary Care T rust, and for Swiss 
Ports, as part of its SAP integration. SAP integration is a 
strength of the product which we continue to build upon.
Customers range in diversity from the Emergency 
Animal Hospital of North West Austin, T exas to 
Mansﬁ eld Oil, and from Christian Salvesen to Friends of 
the Earth. This is a product line with a wide appeal to 
customers due to the clear technological differentiation 
and rapid return on investment. Consequently, we 
believe it is poised for even better results in 2008.
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s Review infonic.com Infonic plc (formerly known as Corpora plc) | Annual Report 2007 15
Text Analytics 
Our primary text analytics software product Sentiment, 
automatically understands, analyses and reports on the 
underlying events and sentiment behind thousands of 
news stories, reading unstructured news in milliseconds 
and presenting the end user with an instant 
understanding of the content. It is the result of years of 
complex research into practical applications for 
computational linguistics, which is the science of using 
computers to decompose and understand language. We 
lead in this ﬁ eld. 
The Sentiment product has a variety of applications, 
such as enabling ﬁ nancial traders to understand the 
news sentiment behind certain stocks. Sentiment can 
tell the trader whether news coverage behind a stock is 
positive, negative or neutral. The resulting real-time 
sentiment ‘signal’ has been proven in testing to assist in 
pinpointing pricing movements before they occur. The 
resulting sentiment/price gap results in an arbitrage 
opportunity that can add signiﬁ cant value to complex 
trading environments.
Thomson Reuters partnership:
Infonic spent 2007 preparing its Sentiment software for 
revenue generation. 
During the year we also secured a partnership with  –
Thomson Reuters to embed our Sentiment software 
into the Thomson Reuters data management layer 
for ﬁ nancial institutions like banks and hedge funds. 
Scores generated from the software are sent to  –
trading companies to aid algorithmic trading. 
T raders can analyse news and market sentiment for  –
the ﬁ rst time, in relation to price movements. 
Various ﬁ nancial organisations are already using  –
the system. 
The system can either be used as part of a wider  –
system deployed by the client, or on a platform 
hosted by Thomson Reuters. 
Thomson Reuters have some 370,000 terminals  –
which they host across the globe with over 2,600 
customers.
We hope to provide more detail about sales progress  –
in this lucrative marketplace during the course of 
2008 in conjunction with Thomson Reuters own 
marketing team but early signs are very 
encouraging.
Our Sentiment team also comprises an intelligence team 
which provides consultancy services to corporate 
customers, providing tracking and analysis of comment 
being made about the client, online. T rading in this 
online area has been steady throughout the year with 
signiﬁ cant revenues being generated at customers such 
as Weber Shandwick and Fitch Ratings. 
Outlook
We have a range of powerful and innovative software 
technologies which we continued to enhance in 2007. 
We have also solidiﬁ ed our presence in the niche sectors 
in which we operate and believe that the momentum we 
are currently experiencing can only continue with the 
increased need to organise and understand digital data. 
We have invested in an experienced sales and marketing 
team with blue chip backgrounds to ensure strong 
international growth. 
T rading has been encouragingly strong in 2007 and the 
year marked a turnaround point for us ﬁ nancially. We are 
seeing a rise in the size and scope of projects and we are 
very excited about our progress.
We are conﬁ dent that we will continue to see returns on 
this strategy in 2008 and beyond, helped by the funding 
we secured in December 2007.
Mark Thompson
Guildford
19 May 2008 16 Infonic plc (formerly known as Corpora plc) | Annual Report 2007 infonic.com
