 t he Year in Review
ExCEPTiONAl PREFORmANCE:
72% of publishing revenues are delivered 
in digital format which represents 39% of 
Group revenues.
– Peter Rigby, Chief Executive
Publishing
During a period of sustained economic decline 
across the world, our Publishing assets have 
performed exceptionally well. Our focus on 
digitally delivered, subscription-led, must have 
proprietary content has enabled us to avoid 
significant reductions in demand albeit with some 
vertical markets performing better than others.
Revenues grew by 8.6% (1.7% on an organic basis) 
and overall publishing now accounts for 54% of Group 
revenues and 72% of Group adjusted operating profits.
a cademic Information (a I)
Our AI division delivered organic revenue growth of 
6.5% and organic adjusted operating profit growth of 
7.8%, testament to the resilience of its products. We 
are particularly pleased with the performance of our 
books business. Our portfolio of products – textbooks, 
monographs and reference works – delivered its best ever 
performance as we saw our global sales and marketing 
network sell over 5.6m books in 2009. We saw excellent 
growth especially in the faster developing Asia regions. 
During the year we established a print on demand (POD) 
partner in our own Kentucky distribution facility to improve 
our control over the print supply chain. Over 25,000 titles 
are now available as POD with overall stock levels being 
reduced as a consequence of our continuing emphasis on 
printing shorter run quantities. We have significantly grown 
our electronic book business revenues by 33% with 22,000 
titles available digitally either as e-books or on databases. 
We watch with interest the introduction of new electronic 
readers and are well placed to take further advantage of this 
new format if it develops in the academic sector.
We launched 26 new journals and continue to have a 
real strength in the growing areas of research which 
include humanities, social sciences, environment and 
agriculture. “Must have” content in academic journals is 
tracked by citations and we continue to see more and 
more of our titles gaining recognition, testament to our 
partnership with editors, societies and academics.
ch IeF execut Ive’s R ev Iew
16 Informa plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 17 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
We have worked hard to enhance the value of our offering 
to our customers and have tempered our pricing policy to 
reflect what is happening in academic budgets worldwide. 
We started the journal renewal process for 2010 earlier in 
the final quarter of 2009 than last year, which along with 
considerable systems development and working closely 
with our customers has resulted in our processed orders 
being higher this year than they were a year ago. Despite 
the challenging academic market conditions we anticipate 
that renewal rates will not be materially affected in 2010.
Professional & c ommercial Information (Pc I)
PCI which comprises publishing across healthcare, 
maritime, pharmaceutical, commodities, professional 
and financial sectors, as well as Datamonitor, delivered 
revenues which were down 2% on an organic basis 
but by working extremely hard on costs delivered 
organic adjusted operating profit growth of 8.6%.
This part of our business generates 72% of its revenue 
from subscriptions, 84% of its revenue digitally 
and has some of the highest margins in the Group. 
Being diversified not just geographically but across 
sectors, we witnessed a strong performance across 
pharma and life sciences, whilst financial services 
was a much tougher area as banks consolidated, 
disappeared or simply reduced their headcount.
Renewal rates were robust across PCI including 
Datamonitor, where the number of high value 
subscribers was maintained. 
It was difficult to grow revenues during 2009 but by 
anticipating this and taking cost out of the business, we 
increased adjusted operating margins by 4.2 percentage 
points to 32.2%. Our portfolio of products covers many 
niche areas across numerous different vertical markets. 
We focus on key accounts and delivering content with 
deep intelligence direct to the customers’ workplace. 
Informa Business Information, part of PCI, will push 
ahead in 2010 developing essential, high-value online 
information and intelligence services in its markets. In 
maritime, the Lloyd’s List Group, comprising not only 
the newspaper but the online offering (used by 83% 
of its customers), databases, maritime law reports, 
finance and insurance services, has been transformed 
over the past two years by focusing on customer 
needs and utilising technology to improve delivery.
Within our financial data businesses (IFI) we have 
inevitably lost customers over the past eighteen months 
as the financial markets collapsed. Yet all four businesses 
increased adjusted operating profits and we secured 
some important customers wins. We anticipate another 
tough year but IFI is protected because it comprises 
electronically delivered data, is subscription led and 
enjoys very high margins.
Datamonitor has continued to expand its presence 
around the world. New customers and renewals have 
taken longer to secure but we have been able to 
supplement revenue with one off reports as well as one 
or two large consulting projects. The investment in our 
Knowledge Centers has improved the offering and we 
have restructured our suite of IT products which was the 
most challenging sector in 2009. We have targeted those 
sectors where we believe there are significant growth 
opportunities such as energy and healthcare.
A lot of cost has been taken out of the business but we 
have also reinvested in global sales teams as we look to 
expand our reach. Datamonitor’s integration into Informa 
and our office network and databases has enhanced its 
access to new geographical territories. Whilst markets 
remain difficult, we are encouraged by how well 
Datamonitor has performed this year.
Our portfolio of market leading brands, including Scrip, 
Lloyd’s List, TrialTrove, Insurance Day, IGM, Food News, 
SeaSearcher and Datamonitor gives us confidence that 
we can continue to deliver deep, content led intelligence, 
increasingly in an online format focusing on end-users in 
high value markets.
events & t raining
When we reflect on the past eighteen months and the 
nature of our Events and Training business which accounts 
for 46% of Group revenues and 28% of Group adjusted 
operating profits, it has delivered an extraordinary result. 
We have lost revenues of £108.8m, around half due to us 
pro-actively taking product out of the market, and yet 
protected the bottom line to the extent that adjusted 
operating profits only fell by £40.4m. We still achieved an 
adjusted operating profit margin of 15.5%. Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 18
t he Year in Review
Our exhibitions and large conferences were resilient. 
Our largest events including Arab Health, the Monaco 
Yacht Show, SuperReturn, the Com series (Telecoms), all 
performed well and we expect them to do so again in 2010.
The most challenging areas were local language 
conferences and training courses, as corporate budgets 
were cut. We reacted quickly to reduce volume and costs. 
The cost base is very flexible and we are confident we can 
accommodate increased demand before we need to put 
cost back into the business.
Geographically, the picture was similar everywhere for 
conferences. Europe, and in particular our large German 
operations, were hit hard but it was a similar trend in 
the US, Middle East and Australia. We would expect each 
region to bounce back in line with the recovery in their 
respective economies. In anticipation of this, we are 
working hard on new products and topic development 
and making our training materials easier to access and 
more flexible for the corporate landscape.
Our corporate training portfolio had a stronger end 
to the year but has suffered significantly over the past 
eighteen months. It was one of the first businesses to 
be impacted by the recession and may take a while to 
recover. However, with significant cost taken out of the 
business, any pick-up in demand, particularly in the US, 
will result in a materially improved performance.
There were still some notable successes despite the 
difficult environment which indicates the quality of  
our businesses:
Dubai exhibitions excluding Cityscape increased •	
revenues by 18%;
Telecoms, where the revenues from our Com World •	
Series of events were up 12%;
Vitafoods increased revenues by 32%; •	
Monaco Yacht Show increased revenues by 3%; •	
AusRail, where revenues were up by 14%; and •	
Our Life Sciences events business delivered profits  •	
in line with 2008.
The top 200 events contribute 28% of overall Events 
and Training revenues and around 55% of adjusted 
operating profit.
Participating in a market leading exhibition or 
large conference remains one of the best ways for a 
company to market their product, garner intelligence, 
debate industry issues and network. This is evidenced 
by Arab Health which ran in January 2010 with revenue 
20% up year on year or SuperReturn International which 
ran last month with over 1,000 delegates. Our forward 
bookings for the rest of our shows in 2010 are slightly 
ahead of last year.
The final quarter of 2009 showed a degree of stability 
amongst our Event and Training operations. This has 
continued in 2010 and we are working hard to ensure our 
portfolio meets the needs of our customers and markets. 
We are looking to build on our existing exhibition 
portfolio through supersizing and geo-cloning existing 
events, new launches and small bolt-on acquisitions.
Peter Rigby 
Chief Executive
ch IeF execut Ive’s R ev Iew continued
