 t he Year in Review
14 Informa plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
STRENgTh:
Informa is in a stronger position 
than it was this time last year to deal 
with challenges and also benefit 
from the multiple opportunities 
available to the Group.
– Derek Mapp, Chairman
Despite 2009 being an extremely tough year for 
the world economy, I am pleased to report a good 
performance from Informa over the last 12 months.
It was an extremely demanding year, but one which 
brought to the fore some of the key characteristics 
of Informa. Three features stand out:
the resilience of our portfolio of assets diversified •	
across vertical markets and geographies;
the operational flexibility of our business, which •	
allowed us to continue to protect margins through 
prompt cutting of costs; and
the entrepreneurial spirit of our people who pursued •	
new opportunities even as market conditions 
remained uncertain.
Revenue for the year ended 31 December 2009 was 
£1.22bn down only 4% on 2008. Adjusted operating 
profits were £309.5m, up 1% on 2008. The adjusted 
operating margin improved accordingly from 23.9% to 
25.3% and adjusted cash conversion was 105%. Our free 
cash flow during 2009 was £223.8m – up 6.6% on 2008. 
On an organic basis, revenues declined by 14% with 
publishing up 2% and events and training down 27%, 
partly driven by our pro-active reduction of the number 
of events we run. Organic adjusted operating profits 
declined by 12%, with an increase in publishing of 8% 
offset by a 41% decline across events and training.
Profit before taxation decreased to £96.5m (2008: 
£109.0m) as a result of the cost of restructuring during the 
year whilst basic earnings per share increased by 12% to 
18.8p (2008: 16.8p restated). Adjusted diluted earnings 
per share increased to 34.3p (2008: 33.9p restated).
In order to strengthen our balance sheet and remove any 
market concerns about our ability to finance our business 
within current banking covenants we launched a rights 
issue in May, raising a net £242m. We ended the year 
with net debt of £872.6m (2008: £1,341.8m) and a net 
debt to EBITDA multiple of 2.7 times against a covenant 
of 3.5 times. It is our intention to trade between 2.0 and 
2.5 times going forward, a level which is in line with 
investment grade parameters for credit managers. 
By the start of 2009 it was apparent that economic conditions 
were challenging and would continue to negatively impact 
trading. As such we managed the business to protect 
profitability, optimise cash generation and take swift action 
c ha IRman’s statement 15 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
on head count and other variable costs. During the year 
we reduced staff numbers by a further 8%, which drove 
an annualised cost saving of £40m. We reacted quickly 
to falling demand in the events business and reduced 
events output by a quarter which in itself was responsible 
for half of the drop in events revenue. Where appropriate, 
we have also restructured our publishing businesses, 
consolidating operations and reducing the cost base.
We looked at all cost lines but were careful to leave 
the core of our business intact and we have continued 
to invest both vertically and geographically where 
trading conditions warranted it. We were able 
to react very quickly to the downturn given our 
variable cost base and we are in a strong position 
to take advantage of an upturn when it comes. 
We continue to look closely at our business portfolio 
to find opportunities to bolster certain areas through 
investment. Informa has a strong track record of 
generating value through the effective integration of 
acquisitions of all sizes. Looking forward into 2010 and 
beyond we will continue to make small bolt on acquisitions 
which fulfil our strict investment criteria. We also seek to 
divest of businesses that do not fit our long-term strategy.  
We have continued to respond to client demands 
for information delivered digitally. Of our publishing 
revenues in 2009, 72% came from digital sources across 
all of our major verticals. 64% of publishing revenues are 
subscription led and we have largely moved from a legacy 
single subscriber business to corporate site licences, which 
now form the majority of our subscription business. In 
2009, publishing contributed 72% of total profits, while 
less than 3% of our total revenues come from advertising. 
Our strategy is to continue to develop a strong, high 
margin information business which is resilient in 
the downturn but will have appropriate operational 
gearing in the up cycle. We have high internal 
standards for cash control, strong corporate 
governance, strict management controls, allied with 
the necessity to be innovative and entrepreneurial. 
During 2009 we launched the Abu Dhabi Yacht 
Show, established a new business venture in Saudi 
Arabia, opened an exhibition business alongside our 
conference operations in Brazil, invested in our Academic 
content platform, grew our telecommunications Com 
series of events worldwide (especially in emerging 
markets) and continued to develop our various Clinical 
Research publishing and events businesses. Similar 
initiatives and new activity continue into 2010.
We are recommending a second interim dividend of 7.85p 
per share. This will be paid on 19 May 2010 to shareholders 
on the register on 16 April 2010. It will make a total 
dividend for 2009 of 11.45p per share as against 8.41p per 
share (restated) in 2008, an increase of 36%.
For almost all businesses, 2009 has been one of the 
toughest years they have ever experienced. Informa is 
no exception, but we have performed well due to the 
actions taken within the business and the nature of our 
activities with their variety of vertical markets, multi-
geographies, media formats, allied with strong cash 
generation, good cost control and high margins. However, 
our resilience and strength could not have been achieved 
without the support of our people in every part of the 
business. Despite cost cuts and, in certain instances,  
lower incomes, every person in Informa has given their all. 
I would like to thank and congratulate every one of them 
on behalf of the Board and the shareholders.
Future Prospects
The economic background remains uncertain and 
markets are unpredictable. We remain cautious and are 
running our businesses accordingly. However, Informa 
is in a stronger position than it was this time last year to 
deal with challenges and also benefit from the multiple 
opportunities available to the Group.
Academic journal and other subscription renewals are in 
line with our expectations. Our UAE-based exhibitions in 
the first few months of 2010 have grown over last year and 
on the conference side, our larger events such as the major 
German Energy Event and SuperReturn International 
have performed well. The short-term outlook for our more 
cyclical smaller conferences remains flat but the business 
is well positioned for the economic upswing.
With considerable cost removed from the business we  
are well placed to maximise the opportunities to grow 
as and when they arise. Our portfolio of assets is well 
balanced across vertical markets and geographies. We 
are pushing ahead with innovative ways to enhance 
our customer offering and further develop an already 
strong digital capability.
Derek mapp 
Chairman
