 Chairman’s Statement
Over the past three years, the world has experienced 
some of the worst economic conditions ever and I am 
delighted at how well the Informa business model has 
performed. This is in part due to the changes that we 
have consciously made to the information we provide 
as well as the way we provide it and in part to the 
diversification into new product areas and geographies.
Informa was a different Company ten years ago to what 
it is today. It was mainly a business to business events 
business, with advertising based publishing and like 
many businesses then, we had minimal digital content. 
In 2010, some 70% of adjusted operating profits came 
from information publishing, 41% of our revenue 
is electronic and 36% of our revenue comes from 
subscriptions. In fact in 2010 only 2% of revenue  
came from advertising.
Importantly, the 2004 merger between Informa and 
Taylor & Francis (T&F) created a business with a balance 
between cyclical growth and predictable subscription 
revenues. The T&F academic business, which in 2010 
accounted for 35% of adjusted operating profit, is a 
market leading business of the highest quality with 
particular strength in the areas of humanities and 
social sciences. T&F which was a nil premium, non cash 
transaction, with its subsequent improvement in profit 
levels, has added considerable value to the Group. 
Although the T&F merger was fundamental, our objective 
of creating a high value knowledge and information 
business has been achieved thus far through a 
combination of both organic and acquisition led growth. 
The three major acquisitions of PJB Publishing (Scrip) in 
I am pleased to announce a strong set of results for 2010,  
which again demonstrate the underlying strength of the  
business, especially renewable revenue streams, high 
margins and strong cash generation. 
Derek Mapp, Chairman
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 10
INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.pdf   12 21/03/2011   17:33 2003, IIR Holdings (IIR) in 2005 and Datamonitor in 2007 
have grown substantially and have all improved the quality 
and organic growth potential of the enlarged Group.
In 2011, the Company continues to invest in organic 
growth, both in existing and emerging markets. We 
will also look to make fill-in acquisitions which both 
generate value and add to the quality of the business. 
These will be in sectors where we already have core 
strength and where we can achieve revenue and cost 
synergies. Quite separately, we will consider assets for 
disposal and in so doing we can use the funds generated 
to add overall to shareholder value, either through 
improving the balance sheet, or through re-investment. 
Looking forward, our emphasis will remain on growing 
sustainable shareholder value, investing for growth  
and improving the resilience and visibility and as  
such the overall quality of our business. From an organic 
and acquisition perspective, we will look at assets 
which are digital, content rich, have proprietorial 
information, with high levels of repeat business and 
events with geo-cloning opportunities.
Emerging markets will be increasingly important 
and during 2010 we added to our events portfolio in 
Brazil and established new events in Saudi Arabia and 
Vietnam. An acquisition at the end of 2010 brought us  
12 new large exhibitions in Australia, which, together 
with our existing business there, makes us one of the 
leading Australian events companies. Looking forward 
to 2011, we have more opportunities in the UAE and the 
Far East where we already have a base but also in new 
emerging markets such as Turkey. 
From a trading perspective, our businesses benefited in 
2010 from improving economies, especially in Asia, Latin 
America, Australia, Germany and Scandinavia. Southern 
Europe especially Italy and Spain remain weak, whereas 
the US business was sluggish, with perhaps a more 
sustained recovery towards the end of the year. From 
a sector perspective, most of our areas grew in 2010, 
especially financial events, which did of course decline 
during the financial crisis. More difficult areas were real 
estate and property and some of our financial data 
businesses, which relied heavily on bank subscriptions. 
We learned much during the downturn, including 
how efficient our business is, how resilient our market 
leading products are, how important our top brands are 
and how flexible our people and our cost base are. This 
helps us to grow the operating margin every year and 
yet still invest for the future. 
We also recognise that where our products were not 
market leading they would suffer in a downturn and 
as such we have reduced the scale considerably of our 
smaller events and also consolidated some publications. 
This process will continue and already in 2010 some 50% 
of our events gross profits were delivered by our top 200 
leading events. 
Informa will remain high quality, high margin, highly 
cash generative, highly digital and increasingly resilient. 
Our investment organically and through acquisition will 
push us into emerging markets where we anticipate a 
wider range of growth opportunities. With an efficient 
balance sheet and a highly committed team, we 
certainly have an exciting few years ahead. I would like 
to thank everyone inside Informa for their hard work and 
commitment both now and over the past 12 months and 
wish them continued success for 2011.
Derek Mapp
Chairman
Informa will remain high quality, high margin,  
highly cash generative, highly digital and  
increasingly resilient.
11 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010
INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.pdf   13 21/03/2011   17:33
