 Chief Executive’s Review
Academic Information (AI) 
Our academic division, which provides books and 
journals to university libraries and the wider academic 
market, accounts for 25% of Group revenue and 35% 
of the adjusted operating profi t. The division continues 
to perform well, demonstrating the resilient nature 
of its high quality earnings streams. This division has 
delivered organic revenue and adjusted operating profi t 
growth of 4.7% and 4.5% respectively during 2010. 
Our book businesses had a strong year with a number 
of deals in new, emerging market libraries ensuring we 
kept pace with a record breaking 2009 performance. 
Ongoing technical developments in both print-on-
demand and marketing activity supports the ever 
growing portfolio of books with nearly 5.5 million 
books sold in 2010 of which around 70% of the revenue 
generated was from the back catalogue.
The on-going strength of our journals business 
has been supported by an increase in online usage 
of over 25%, showing the strength of our product 
range and the success of the marketing teams. This 
acceleration in usage emphasises the ever improving 
quality of our publications and will further increase 
the resilience of the business and strengthen its 
position in its niche market.
Digital delivery is increasingly important for both the 
books and journals and we work hard to remain delivery 
platform neutral. 100% of our journals are available 
digitally along with 32,000 of our books (2009: 22,000).
Geographically, emerging markets are an important 
growth area with India now the fourth largest books 
market for our academic information and there are 
promising growth prospects in China. Emerging 
markets now represent 13% of the AI revenues 
compared to 11% last year.
We remain sensitive to the demands of an academic 
environment with signifi cant budgetary pressure and 
we have worked closely with our customers to secure 
2011 revenue. The journal renewal process has delivered 
in line with our expectations. We believe this refl ects 
the weighting of our portfolio towards HSS and libraries’ 
Our book businesses had a strong year with a number of deals 
in new, emerging market libraries ensuring we kept pace with 
a record breaking 2009 performance. 
Peter Rigby, Chief Executive
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 12
INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.pdf   14 21/03/2011   17:33 need for quality content. We will endeavour to build 
on those subject areas such as environment and urban 
planning and regional studies where we have signifi cant 
strength during the course of 2011. 
Professional and Commercial Information (PCI)
The PCI division which provides books, journals, 
database products, intelligence centres and other
similar products to the healthcare, pharmaceutical, 
fi nancial services, maritime, commodities, telecoms 
and legal sectors, accounts for 30% of Group revenue 
and 35% of the adjusted operating profi t. PCI consists
of Informa Business Information (IBI) and Informa
Financial Information (IFI).
As expected, during the year we saw the lag impact 
on subscription income especially in the fi nancial 
services sector, however, during the second half of 2010, 
revenues grew and we expect them to continue to grow 
in 2011. We have taken the opportunity over the past 
two years to remove marginal product, consolidate titles 
and invest in our market leading brands and products, 
which will be the core of this division’s growth in 2011 
and beyond.
The PCI division delivers 88% of its products digitally, 
driving further growth from high value corporate sales 
and digital upselling. Subscriptions account for 74% 
of the overall division’s revenue with a high renewal 
rate of 87% which is a testament to the strength of 
the product off ering.
We have continued to reduce our reliance on advertising 
which is only 6% of PCI revenue. We will move forward 
with a stronger, higher quality set of assets in this 
portfolio. The migration from print to digital and from 
single subscriber to corporate access continues to boost 
the performance of this division and will be continued. 
The Citeline suite of products for the pharmaceutical 
market has performed very well with new product 
launches in 2010 and more planned for 2011. Informa 
Healthcare’s online portal, informahealthcare.com,
was also enhanced in 2010 helping to drive a 
substantial revenue growth for digital books. Lloyd’s 
List has seen a 21% increase in subscription revenue 
with the new launch of its online product. Many other 
product successes contributed to the ever improving 
portfolio within the IBI division.
Towards the end of 2010, we took the decision to 
fully integrate Datamonitor into IBI. During the year 
Datamonitor continued to grow its subscriber base 
and sales and has ended the year in a stronger position 
than it started. Previously it had interacted closely with 
the rest of the Group but maintained a more expanded 
infrastructure than most other acquired businesses. 
We believe that now is the right time to combine 
all of the divisions’ market leading products within 
the Healthcare, Financial and Telecoms sectors. This 
portfolio will present our customers with an even more 
compelling sales proposition. We have also taken the 
opportunity to remove some of the marginal product 
in certain sectors and focus on the niche areas of 
information which can command high margins. 
We have taken the opportunity over the past two years 
to remove marginal product, consolidate titles and invest 
in our market leading brands and products, which will be 
the core of this division’s growth in 2011 and beyond.
13 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010
INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.pdf   15 21/03/2011   17:33 IFI, which delivers high value subscription products  
to the financial sector, represents 22% of PCI revenues. 
We have continued to see a lag on subscription income 
in this area but have diversified the portfolio somewhat 
through the acquisition of an emerging funds database 
which has strong growth potential.
Across this division we are investing in platforms and 
distributions systems, restructuring or adding to our 
existing sales teams, expanding geographically and we 
believe that the prospects remain encouraging for 2011.
Events and Training
Our Events and Training business, consisting of trade 
shows and exhibitions, large and small conferences and 
training courses, accounts for 45% of Group revenue 
and 30% of adjusted operating profit. This division has 
benefited from improving economic conditions around 
the world with organic revenue from core operations 
increasing by 2.7%. With the benefit of operational 
gearing, adjusted operating profits have grown by  
8.1% to £93.5m and the margin has improved by  
150 basis points to 17%.
2010 witnessed improved economic conditions in Asia, 
Latin America, Australia, Germany and Scandinavia. The 
US remained tougher but there were definitely signs 
of an improved recovery towards the end of the year. 
On a sector basis, our financial events recovered well, 
telecoms remained strong and we expanded our stable 
of market-leading healthcare events. Trade shows and 
exhibitions remained our most resilient products, whilst 
average delegate numbers increased across our entire 
conference portfolio giving us confidence for the future. 
In May we ran IPEX, our one quadrennial event. This was 
a great success and contributed strongly to this year’s 
results. Other notable successes include Arab Health, 
which celebrated its 35th year in 2010, the World Anti-
Aging Congress held in March, the Broadband World 
Forum held in October and the SuperReturn Series 
which was held seven times in different locations  
during the course of the year.
The larger events portfolio has performed well in 2010 
with the revenue from the top 200 events increasing 
by 16% (5% excluding IPEX). The number of events 
generating more than £0.5m has increased from 69 to  
76 in the last 12 months. This will be an area of focus 
for the Group as we look to increase the number of 
exhibitions that we run, either through new launches  
or acquisition, or by seeking to increase the scale of  
our market leading conferences. 
Our local language conference and training companies 
in Germany and the Netherlands recovered well after 
a challenging 2009. We removed a significant number 
of events year-on-year but were able to grow profits 
by 28% between them. We achieved a strong recovery 
in Sweden and Denmark, in Australia where we added 
an exhibition business late in the year to our market 
leading conference and training company and in the 
US where our conference business, led by its marketing 
division, grew its adjusted operating profits by 21%.
Our corporate training portfolio showed a much 
improved performance in the second half of the year 
with strong growth in the Far East and Australia and an 
improvement in its larger US operations. Revenue in the 
key final three months of the year, excluding Robbins 
Gioia, grew by 11% which gives us cautious optimism 
for 2011. Robbins Gioia, the US Government contractor, 
stabilised over the final months of the year.
We have started 2011 well with Arab Health, held 
in January, achieving its highest ever revenue and 
rebooking a record amount onsite for 2012. We also held 
our market-leading Energy event in Germany and Middle 
East Electricity, both of which have grown. 
Forward bookings across our exhibition business and 
the outlook for the conference businesses remains 
positive. We are intending to launch new trade shows 
and conferences in 2011, build on our market-leading 
positions in the Middle East and within the Healthcare 
sector, as well as expand into key geographies within 
the Far East and Latin America.
Peter Rigby
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
The larger events portfolio has performed well in 
2010 with the revenue from the top 200 events 
increasing by 16% (5% excluding IPEX).
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 14
INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.pdf   16 21/03/2011   17:33
