 STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING THE INFORMA GROUP
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
// The goal is simple but demanding: 
progressively to return every part of our 
business to growth, and simultaneously to 
build the capabilities and platforms needed 
for future scale and consistent performance. / /
STEPHEN A. CARTER CBE 
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE
www.informa.com
12 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 n 2014, Informa embarked on a period of 
transition. It was a year in which we took 
concerted action to enhance our business 
performance and strengthen the leadership 
team, our operating model and our 
corporate culture.
Steadily and surely, we have begun to deliver on this transition, 
with two overriding objectives: improving operational fitness, 
and creating the conditions for long-term growth.
Since our last Annual Report to shareholders, a long-term 
growth strategy has been unveiled, building on the strong 
basic foundations of Informa’s Academic Publishing, 
Business Intelligence, Global Exhibitions and Knowledge 
& Networking Divisions. This Strategic Report provides details 
of how this strategy is being implemented through our Group 
Business Model (page 19) and via the individual Business 
Models of each of the four Operating Divisions (from page 23).
The goal is simple but demanding: progressively to return every 
part of our business to growth, and simultaneously to build the 
capabilities and platforms needed for future scale and 
consistent performance.
In the past year, we have made solid progress by introducing 
a simplified divisional operating model. We also enhanced the 
management team, refinanced our balance sheet and seized 
acquisition opportunities, particularly in the important US 
market, to expand our Global Exhibitions business. Together, 
these measures will deliver sustainable shareholder returns.
To implement this strategy, we announced the 2014–2017 
Growth Acceleration Plan in July of last year. 
As part of that plan, we expect the current year to be one of 
execution and delivery, positioning Informa for subsequent 
growth and improving our ability to operate at scale.
In executing the Growth Acceleration Plan, your management 
team will prioritise financial discipline and operational focus, 
ensuring that we continue to deliver revenue growth, 
consistent underlying profits and positive cash generation.
The full year figures in this report reflect our focused 
performance in 2014.
There are significant challenges ahead, and there are areas 
of our portfolio that require investment and an injection of 
fresh thinking. But the opportunities in the Knowledge and 
Information industries far outweigh the risks. And this means 
that our management, Informa colleagues and shareholders 
can look forward with confidence to the period ahead.
I
/ /  In the past year, we have made solid 
progress by introducing a simplified 
divisional operating model. We also 
enhanced the management team, 
refinanced our balance sheet and 
seized acquisition opportunities. / /
/ /  We operate in some of the most 
exciting and valuable sectors of 
our industry: specialist business 
information, must-have academic 
content, Exhibitions and events that 
are a showcase for different sectors. / /
/ /  The market opportunity is reflected 
by industry estimates that the 
Information Economy, in which 
Informa operates, is worth more 
than £200bn globally. / /
/ /  T h e Growth Acceleration Plan is 
a multi-year strategy to improve 
operational performance and better 
exploit the growth opportunities in 
our core markets. / /
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 13
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  MARKET OPPORTUNITY
Informa’s market opportunity, as we reshape the business, 
reflects the worldwide expansion of the Knowledge and 
Information Economy. 
We operate in some of the most exciting and valuable sectors 
of our industry: specialist business information, must-have 
academic content, and business Exhibitions and events 
that are a showcase for different sectors.
Informa benefits from business confidence, itself a by-product 
of economic growth, in markets such as the US, in China and 
parts of Western Europe such as the UK. We are also exposed 
to long-term, predictable, areas of content demand, notably 
for the academic journals and content published by Taylor 
& Francis. We are also present in emerging markets, where 
growth rates remain attractive – albeit volatile. And we are 
leaders in specialist business-to-business Exhibitions, where 
demand from delegates and exhibitors alike is on the increase.
Your company is, therefore, well placed from a market 
perspective. There are countries where we need to be bigger, 
notably the US, China, the Middle East and Africa. But our 
overall geographic presence is building and gives us a platform. 
Nevertheless, this poses a challenge that we began to address 
in 2014: have we been operating effectively in all these markets, 
with the right mix of assets, the most efficient portfolio and the 
right go-to-market strategies? We set out to answer those 
questions with a Group-wide review last year. It confirmed the 
market opportunities before us: especially given the explosion 
in data sharing, business information exchange and demand 
for the sort of specialist information that we provide. 
The market opportunity is reflected by industry estimates that 
the Information Economy, in which Informa operates, is worth 
more than £200bn globally. This figure is growing at 2% to 6% 
a year, creating significant expansion potential for the Group. 
To seize those opportunities, Informa requires a more focused, 
growth-oriented and reorganised business proposition. That is 
what we started to put in place during 2014 – a year in which 
we also delivered solid financial results. 
The past year’s results, set out in more detail in the Financial 
Review, reflect the attractive nature of the markets in which 
we operate. But they also show that we must take a long hard 
look at our portfolio; we must maintain our financial discipline; 
and we must perform consistently during the coming period 
of transition.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
In the 12 months to 31 December 2014, Informa delivered 
stable revenues of £1.13bn and adjusted operating profits of 
£334.1m. This was a creditable performance given challenging 
conditions in some of our markets, particularly impacting 
Business Intelligence. 
STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING THE INFORMA GROUP
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (CONTINUED)
DATA IS THE POWER 
BEHIND TODAY’S 
BUSINESSES
It has been calculated that in 2013 there 
was 4.4ZB of data worldwide.
ZB
A zettabyte (ZB) is 1 followed by 21 zeros 
of bytes – that is, a trillion gigabytes. 
By 2020, that total is forecast to have 
grown to 40ZB. Such numbers are 
unimaginably large. We generate useful 
information from this mass.
www.informa.com
14 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 We generated strong free cash flow of £232.5m – up 
from £207 .8m in the prior year – as our leading positions 
in Academic Publishing and Global Exhibitions offset 
volatility in other businesses.
As part of the strategic review undertaken in 2014 and our 
annual assessment of the future returns from our businesses 
and investments, we reassessed our business portfolio, and 
the asset values attached to different businesses. Following 
that review, we took a non-cash impairment charge of £219.0m 
against our 12 month earnings, which resulted in a statutory 
pre-tax loss for the year of £31.2m. This reflects our 
determination to be financially prudent, and to continually 
reassess our portfolio mix.
Gareth Wright, who was appointed Group Finance Director 
during the year, explains the results and divisional performance 
in more detail in the Financial Review (pages 56 to 59). But 
shareholders can be reassured that our cash generation and 
earnings per share remain solid; our balance sheet is strong; 
and we have sufficient confidence in the trading outlook to 
recommend to the Board an increase to the full year dividend.
In the current year and beyond, several parts of the business 
are growing and have the potential to grow faster. And we 
believe we have the potential to double in size over the long 
term. Given this opportunity, we laid down a roadmap for 
2014-2017 GROWTH ACCELERATION PLAN
– Growth investment
– Performance acceleration
– Return on investment
– Funding
– Portfolio management
–  Targeted mergers and 
acquisitions (“M&A”)
– Catch-up investment
– Strategic review
– Operating structure
– Strengthening talent
– Organisational efficiencies
– Internal engagement
MEASURED CHANGE > ACCELERATED CHANGE >
ACCELERATE AND SCALE >
OPERATIONAL FITNESS >
STRENGTHEN > 
future expansion and accelerated growth in 2014. We concluded 
that a revised strategy was required to deliver growth in all our 
markets and improve the returns we generate for shareholders. 
This was the basis for the Growth Acceleration Plan. 
2014–2017 GROWTH ACCELERATION PLAN
In July of last year, we announced the 2014–2017 Growth 
Acceleration Plan, which is a multi-year strategy to improve 
operational performance and better exploit the growth 
opportunities in our core markets. 
As mentioned earlier in this report to shareholders – and in that 
of the Chairman – the Growth Acceleration Plan aims to have 
all four Operating Divisions delivering a positive organic growth 
run rate by the end of 2016. 
The Growth Acceleration Plan comprises six core elements: 
a new operating structure for the Group; a strengthened 
management team; enhanced portfolio management; a 
focused acquisition strategy; a new investment programme; 
and finally, a new funding model. Given the time that has 
elapsed since we first unveiled the Growth Acceleration Plan, 
it is worth reminding shareholders about what we are 
seeking to do. 
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 15
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  1. OPERATING STRUCTURE
Under the operating structure unveiled in July 2014, Informa 
now has four market-facing Operating Divisions: Academic 
Publishing, Business Intelligence, Global Exhibitions and 
Knowledge & Networking. 
I believe, as does the Board and management, that this structure 
aligns the Group more closely with the markets it serves. It 
improves our customer focus, and will encourage collaboration 
within business segments and across geographies. Additionally, 
it creates the potential to leverage scale more effectively.
The four Operating Divisions are supported by a “fifth” Division: 
Global Support, incorporating all central Group functions such 
as Shared Services, Information Technology and Finance. As 
the Group builds scale globally, the Global Support Division 
will become increasingly important in ensuring we maximise 
scale efficiencies across process functions and the broader 
back office.
2. STRENGTHENED MANAGEMENT TEAM
As I mentioned earlier, Gareth Wright was appointed Group 
Finance Director in July, stepping up from his previous role 
as Deputy Finance Director. Gareth explains our financial 
performance and the impact of balance sheet changes 
following our 2014 refinancing on pages 56 to 59 of this report.
At the divisional operating level, we have appointed Patrick 
Martell as Chief Executive of Business Intelligence and 
Andrew Mullins as Chief Executive of Knowledge & 
Networking. They have brought fresh perspective and focus 
to our management planning in those businesses, and will 
be implementing a range of growth measures during 2015.
The four Divisional Chief Executives have formed their own 
senior management teams through a mixture of internal 
transfers and external recruitment. This leaves each Operating 
Division with a well-defined organisational structure and clear 
lines of authority and accountability.
At the Group level, Tom Moloney has joined Informa as 
Director of Talent & Transformation, and Alex Roth as Director 
of Strategy & Business Planning. Each brings their own 
experience to their roles, complementing other internal 
appointments made to the Executive Management Team.
As the Chairman highlights in his report, we also added further 
valuable experience to the Board in 2014. 
3. PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
One of the principles behind the Growth Acceleration Plan 
is to continually reassess the mix and focus of the Group. 
This enables us to ensure we are allocating capital to the right 
areas, where the potential to improve returns are greatest. 
Our thorough review in 2014 led to a number of key decisions:
transferring the management of the Medical Journals 
business from Business Intelligence to Academic 
Publishing and several other small assets to Knowledge 
& Networking;
creating a single Informa operating centre in Shanghai, China;
considering strategic alternatives for the smaller 
Consumer information and forecasting businesses 
within Business Intelligence;
fully providing for the loans to the Chinese Pharmaceutical 
data business;
closing our conference business in Johannesburg and 
events business in Melbourne; and
STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING THE INFORMA GROUP
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (CONTINUED)
/ /  The 2014–2017 Growth Acceleration Plan is 
a multi-year strategy to improve operational 
performance and better exploit the growth 
opportunities in our core markets. / /
www.informa.com
16 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 taking an impairment against the carrying value of certain 
information assets acquired as part of the 2007 Datamonitor 
acquisition, including the Consumer portfolio under review.
4. ACQUISITION STRATEGY
As part of the Growth Acceleration Plan, Informa has a targeted 
and disciplined acquisition strategy to build scale and capability 
across priority industry verticals and geographic markets. 
In 2014, acquisition activity was primarily focused on the Global 
Exhibitions Division, with a particular emphasis on building our 
US presence. This is the largest Exhibitions market in the world 
and, consequently, it leads the industry in terms of innovation 
and product development. 
In August, we acquired Virgo Holdings and its portfolio of 
six major Health and Nutrition shows – including SupplySide 
West. This event complements our established Vitafoods 
Exhibition Brand, which runs the leading equivalent event 
in Europe, as well as events in Asia and Latin America. 
This confirms Informa’s position as the market leader 
in this growing vertical. 
In December, we acquired Hanley Wood Exhibitions, with 
a portfolio of 17 major Exhibitions and trade shows in 
Construction and Real Estate, including World of Concrete 
and Greenbuild. This acquisition complements our leading 
position within this vertical in Canada, through Brands such 
as Construct and the Real Estate Global Forum, and in the 
Middle East, through the Cityscape series of events.
More recently, we completed the bolt-on acquisition of the 
Orlando MegaCon Consumer Exhibition. This expands our 
strong Canadian Fan Expo Pop Culture franchise further into 
the US, following the acquisition of the Dallas ComiCon in 
2014, strengthening our position in this exciting and fast 
growing vertical.
These businesses offer the prospect of strong growth and 
good potential for synergies through customer marketing 
and geo-cloning. They enhance our existing presence in 
each business segment.
With newly acquired businesses, we remain focused on 
post-acquisition integration, increasing the attention paid to 
businesses after they have been bought, to facilitate a smooth 
and efficient transition and ensure potential synergies are 
maximised. In our recently acquired businesses, forward 
bookings are strong, and World of Concrete (held in February 
2015) reported an increase in revenue of more than 20% on 
the previous year.
5. ORGANIC INVESTMENT
One of the most significant elements of the Growth Acceleration 
Plan is a commitment, over the next three years, to invest up to 
£90m in a range of internal projects across the Group. These 
initiatives represent a mixture of catch-up investment and 
incremental growth projects, falling into four key categories:
People and organisation
Customer engagement and value creation
Product and content refresh
Production agility and scale
The investment programme spans all four Operating Divisions, 
as well as the Global Support Division, with a particular 
weighting towards Business Intelligence. This Division is 
expected to account for about one third of the total spend.
The deployment of capital into these initiatives will be carefully 
managed, with each project assessed on its merits and 
funds only provided in stages, depending on delivery to 
specific targets. 
The first priority projects were submitted for funding in January 
2015 and the volume of work streams is expected to build 
through the year. The Group expects to invest between 
£70m and £90m in Growth Acceleration Plan projects 
over the next three years, with between £30m and £40m 
budgeted for 2015. 
It is anticipated that by 2017 , the investment programme will 
deliver a positive cash return on investment, with a full cash 
payback expected the following year.
6. FUNDING
The Group’s ambition is to retain a robust financing framework 
for the duration of the 2014–2017 programme, incorporating a 
varied and balanced mix of funding sources and maintaining 
net debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and 
amortisation (“EBITDA”) within the Group’s target range of 2.0 
times to 2.5 times. This will ensure adequate liquidity to fund 
all elements of the Growth Acceleration Plan, including the 
investment programme and acquisition strategy. Our funding 
plan will also allow the Group to meet its stated commitment 
to increase annual dividends per share by a minimum of 2% 
per annum through the 2014–2017 period.
The first step in delivering this strategy was the refinancing 
of the Group’s revolving credit facility in October 2014, with a 
maturity of October 2019, and increasing its size from £625m 
to £900m at an interest rate of LIBOR +0.6 to 1.2%, depending 
on the ratio of actual net debt/EBITDA. 
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 17
www.informa.com
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  More recently, we raised £207m through the issue of 45m 
new shares. This ensured that the Group’s net debt to EBITDA 
ratio at year end stood at 2.2 times, within our target range, 
providing ongoing flexibility for the pursuit of targeted 
acquisitions, in line with the Growth Acceleration Plan 
acquisition strategy.
OUR 2015 ROADMAP
I hope to have demonstrated that Informa has emerged from 
the 2014 transition year with purpose, with performance 
and with a clear plan for growth. We have made a detailed 
assessment of our strengths and weaknesses; and we examined 
the global markets in which we operate to better understand 
our customers and the opportunities for expansion. This led to 
our plan for accelerated growth. It is a plan to ensure Informa 
achieves its full potential and improves returns for shareholders.
We have begun to put this plan into action. We now have a 
simplified operating structure and a strengthened management 
team. Our balance sheet is robust, providing flexibility to invest 
in the business and pursue acquisitions. We have discipline and 
patience. This gives us positive momentum and strong belief 
we are on the right path. 
The year ahead will see further change as we continue with 
the Growth Acceleration Plan. But we also expect to see 
steady operational progress, as these changes start to 
have a positive impact.
I am confident that our operating discipline will ensure we also 
continue to deliver on our promises and, in Year Two of the 
Growth Acceleration Plan, assuming current exchange rates 
are maintained, we intend to deliver another year of adjusted 
earnings growth, alongside our commitment to further dividend 
growth and over £30m of investment into the Growth 
Acceleration Plan.
This will require discipline and hard work throughout the Group. 
It also depends on Informa preserving the best of its past, 
and applying its quality franchises and management talent 
to a future of sustained, focused growth. We have made an 
encouraging start. I firmly believe that all the right ingredients 
are in place: we have assets from which to grow; an international 
team of talented colleagues; and an increasingly united vision 
of what can be achieved.
I would like to thank our shareholders, our customers, our 
suppliers and business partners for their support as we 
embark on this growth strategy.
STEPHEN A. CARTER CBE 
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE
//  Informa has emerged from the 2014 transition 
year with purpose, with performance and with 
a clear plan for growth. / /
STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING THE INFORMA GROUP
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (CONTINUED)
www.informa.com
18 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014
