 hen I introduced our last Annual Report, 
I marked my fifth year as your Non-
Executive Chairman by highlighting the 
significant leadership change at Informa. 
Twelve months on, the “wind of change” 
has been felt in almost every corner of 
the Company. 
This change has been led by Stephen A. Carter, who became 
your Group Chief Executive at the beginning of 2014. When 
Stephen was appointed, his mandate from the Board was 
to manage the transition effectively and seek to position the 
Group to ensure we are extracting full value from the attractive 
markets in which we operate. 
I am pleased to report solid progress following an initial 
period of Measured Change, which led in mid-2014 to the 
announcement of the Growth Acceleration Plan. This plan, 
which encapsulates the Group strategy through to 2017 , 
is explained in detail within this Strategic Report, including 
reviews of each of our Operating Divisions. 
BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS
In the last financial year, basic earnings per share rose to 40.3p, 
and the Board recommended a final dividend of 12.9p, lifting 
the total dividend per share by 2% to 19.3p (2013: 18.9p). This 
dividend reflects the Board’s confidence in the strategy and 
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
W
growth plan put in place by Stephen and his strengthened 
management team.
Your new management team has successfully launched and 
begun to implement a new growth strategy, whilst maintaining 
a disciplined operational focus in our balanced portfolio of 
businesses. This has resulted in strong performances in two 
of our four Operating Divisions, and renewed focus on growth 
and reorganisation at the two remaining business areas. 
Global Exhibitions was the highlight, as organic revenue 
and profits rose strongly in a healthy Exhibitions market. 
This performance was enhanced by a number of targeted 
acquisitions, including the Division’s first major foray into the 
important US market. This helps to lift the annualised revenue 
of Global Exhibitions to around £250m annually, reinforcing 
its position as one of the leading Exhibition groups globally.
The Academic Publishing Division also performed well, 
delivering consistent organic growth in a benign budgetary 
environment. Its success is a testament to the strength of our 
academic Brands and our differentiated approach to authors 
and customers. Towards the end of the year, we transferred 
our Medical Journals business from Business Intelligence 
to Academic Publishing. This will add valuable scale to our 
journal portfolio and generate cost savings, and should enable 
us to target the institutional market with its products much 
more effectively.
www.informa.com
4 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 The Business Intelligence and Knowledge & Networking 
Divisions had a more difficult year. Some key end markets 
and geographies remain challenging but we also recognised 
a need to make changes to the operating structure and focus 
of these businesses. This is already under way, following the 
appointment of new Divisional Management Teams in 2014, 
and I have confidence that we will see steady operational 
progress by both businesses through 2015.
Your Board also supports the greater focus within our “fifth” 
Division, Global Support. This Division plays an increasingly 
important role in generating value across the Group. Management 
worked hard to improve our Shared Services function in 2014, 
consolidating the number of geographic hubs operated by 
the Company and delivering back-office efficiencies. 
STRATEGY – 2014–2017 GROWTH 
ACCELERATION PLAN
The Board welcomes the commitment to accelerate growth 
across the Group. The good long-term growth prospects of 
Informa’s markets within the wider Knowledge and Information 
Economy give us confidence we can deliver on this ambition.
Our growth priorities were identified as part of an in-depth 
review led by Stephen and his senior team shortly after he 
became Group Chief Executive in January 2014. This review’s 
conclusions provided the blueprint for the 2014–2017 Growth 
Acceleration Plan, a new Group strategy announced in July. 
I am pleased that the plan will build on our existing strengths 
and align the Group more closely to customers. As you will 
read elsewhere in this report, the Growth Acceleration Plan 
is a comprehensive programme, addressing the operating 
structure, management, portfolio discipline, acquisition strategy 
and funding of the Group. It includes significant investment 
into a range of growth initiatives identified across the Group.
GOVERNANCE
Informa is committed to the highest standards of governance. 
The Corporate Governance Statement (pages 78 to 83) outlines 
these standards. 
At Board level, we added further breadth and depth of 
experience in 2014 with the appointment of several new 
Non-Executive Directors. This included Gareth Bullock, former 
Group Executive Director at Standard Chartered, who was 
also appointed Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. 
TALENT AND CULTURE
As we invest in various initiatives as part of the Growth 
Acceleration Plan and as the shape of the Group evolves, 
one constant is the value of our people. It might be a cliché, 
but we are a people business. All our achievements are 
dependent on the hard work and commitment of our teams 
around the globe. 
Our Group has a wide array of talented individuals, and we will 
invest continually in developing and strengthening this most 
valuable of resources. In 2014, Tom Moloney was appointed to 
the new post of Director of Talent & Transformation. Tom, the 
former Chief Executive of media group EMAP , has significant 
experience in change management. His appointment reflects 
the importance we place on this aspect of the business.
With people comes culture. At Informa, we believe our culture 
is unique, reflecting the value we place on our staff and the 
freedom we provide them to innovate, develop and succeed. 
This extends to our belief in a balanced and inclusive working 
environment, where everyone has an equal opportunity to 
participate and flourish. For example, the latest Group statistics 
show that more than half of our employees are female (57% in 
2014 and 2013). 
In terms of remuneration, the role of your Board Remuneration 
Committee is to ensure the right balance between short and 
long-term rewards. These rewards are linked to value creation 
and delivery against our business strategy. Detailed information 
on our remuneration approach can be found on pages 90 to 107 .
At Informa, our culture also reflects a strong sense of 
responsibility towards community and the environment, 
something encapsulated in our Group Sustainability Strategy. 
This is an area we constantly re-evaluate to see how we can 
do more. Later in 2015 we are planning to re-launch this 
programme, in a bid to focus our efforts and more closely align 
our activities with the core skills and capabilities of the Group.
OUTLOOK
Informa can look forward to the year ahead with confidence. 
Our robust and disciplined performance in 2014, combined 
with a strengthened management team and simplified 
operating model, gives us belief that we can continue to deliver 
on market expectations whilst investing in the various growth 
initiatives identified across the Group, as part of the broader 
Growth Acceleration Plan strategy. 
This belief is reflected in the commitment of the Board to raise 
the annual dividend by a minimum of 2% through the period 
of the Growth Acceleration Plan. This pledge gives strong 
visibility to shareholders as we invest in the future growth of 
the business. This investment in strengthening the business, 
the reorganisation launched in 2014 and the accelerated 
momentum of change will, I am confident, create further 
value for all our stakeholders in 2015. 
DEREK MAPP  
CHAIRMAN
 Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 5
www.informa.com
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 
STRATEGIC 
 REPORT
