 OVERVIEW
Inmarsat continues to build on our strengths as  
a trusted provider of mobile satellite services to 
customers who have ‘mission critical’ connectivity 
needs, where terrestrial wireless networks are not 
present, or are challenged. The niche, which we  
have served now for 35 years, continues to grow as 
connections in our world become more and more 
essential for our business and personal lives. Despite 
the challenges presented by government spending 
cutbacks by some of our biggest governmental 
customers, we have been able to grow in other 
sectors, such as aviation and maritime. This clearly 
demonstrates the strength of our diverse business 
as individual market trends shift.
We strongly believe in the continued growth in global 
connectivity, particularly in remote environments. 
Therefore we have focused our investment in new 
products, services and platforms that address this 
trend. As a result, we are on the verge of entering  
a new era with the launch of our new Inmarsat-5 
global satellite constellation, a $1.6 billion, ﬁve- 
year investment programme which will support our 
revolutionary high-throughput mobile broadband 
service, Global Xpress (GX). With the launch of the 
third satellite in the programme just around the 
corner to deliver seamless global coverage, we will 
offer our customers truly revolutionary broadband 
connectivity on land, sea and air across the globe. 
For our customers, this takes their mobile satellite 
connectivity to the next generation and offers 
capabilities in these untethered environments to a 
place which was unimaginable only a decade ago.
On the back of these investments, we’ve evolved a 
business structure to better align ourselves with our 
distribution partners. As part of a broad partnership 
arrangement to serve oil and gas customers, we 
divested our interests in the oil and gas sector to  
our new partner, RigNet, a rapidly growing major 
player in this market. At the start of 2014 we 
purchased Globe Wireless, one of the major 
communications applications providers to the 
maritime world. We did this to enhance our capability 
to seamlessly work with our distribution partners and 
customers as they migrate to new, more advanced 
maritime broadband platforms. In addition, we 
announced a new programme to develop Europe’ s 
ﬁrst hybrid satellite air to ground network using  
the S-band authorisation we were awarded by the 
European Union a few years ago. We also sold our 
shareholding in SkyWave to ORBCOMM and have  
as a consequence enhanced our relationship with 
them for machine-to-machine (M2M) opportunities. 
More details on our strategy are contained in  
Rupert Pearce’ s CEO section.
ANDREW SUKAWATY
CHAIRMAN
CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW IN SUMMARY
ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL YEAR  
FOR INMARSAT :
 > BUILT ON OUR REPUTATION AS  
A TRUSTED PROVIDER
 > CONTINUED GROWTH AND INVESTMENT
 > CLOSEL Y ALIGNED OURSELVES WITH 
OUR DISTRIBUTION PARTNERS
 >  MAINTAINED THE HIGHEST LEVELS  
OF GOVERNANCE
 > CONTINUED FOCUS ON PROVISION OF 
SAFETY SERVICES: ON LAND, AT SEA  
OR IN THE AIR
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 12
CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW
CONTINUED GROWTH W e are also pleased to announce that we increased 
our dividend for the ninth consecutive year. We  
have now delivered dividend increases every year 
since we listed on the London Stock Exchange in 
2005. The ﬁnal dividend for the year is 30.26 cents 
(US$) per share, which is a 5% increase on last year. 
Our stated intent to deliver sustainable dividend 
increases continues to deliver value for our 
shareholders even through the peak of intensive 
investment cycles.
BOARD ACTIVITIES
Y our Board continues to add value to the Company 
by bringing diverse experience, views and expertise 
to the boardroom. Many of our Board members 
joined at the time of the IPO in 2005 and therefore 
know our complex business well, yet they remain 
clearly independent. We have though started the 
process of bringing in new members to the Board, 
maintaining the strength of thinking and strategic 
contribution at the Board table. In 2014 we added 
(Ret.) General C. Robert Kehler to the Board, who 
brings a global perspective on our government 
customer needs. In addition, we’ve announced the 
addition of Rob Ruijter as a Non-Executive Director, 
who brings a wealth of global ﬁnancial management 
experience, and more recently, we announced that 
Dr Hamadoun T ouré would be joining our Board.  
Dr T ouré has spent the last eight years as the Secretary 
General of the International T elecommunications 
Union and is also deeply experienced in the global 
satellite and space industries. Simon Bax, who joined 
our Board in 2013, will take on the chairmanship of 
our Remuneration Committee in May . Stephen 
Davidson, the current chairman, will remain on the 
Committee and continue as a Director and we thank 
him for his many years of diligent service in this  
vital role for us.
As this evolution of the Board membership  
occurs, we are focused on maintaining continuity  
in understanding the business of the Board, while  
at the same time bringing in new and diverse points 
of view. In addition, we are maintaining the highest 
standards of independent governance. It is a Board 
that contributes greatly to the business and it is  
a privilege to work with them all.
We conducted an internal evaluation of the  
Board during 2014 and can report, while there are 
always areas to improve, your Board is functioning 
effectively . Our Executive Management team 
continues to evolve and perform well. 
Rupert Pearce, our CEO, leads the Company, as he 
has for three years now, while I have stepped back 
into a Non-Executive role as Chairman. We are 
pleased that T ony Bates joined us as CFO and an 
Executive Director during the year. T ony has already 
made a signiﬁcant contribution to the running of the 
Company and we are beneﬁting from his wealth of 
sector experience, both in ﬁnance and operations. 
PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY
This year was marked by a tragic event, in which 
Inmarsat played a quite visible role: the loss of 
Malaysian Airlines Flight MH370. First, our deepest 
condolences go out to the families and friends of 
those who lost loved ones. Due to the highly unusual 
set of events, that have yet to be fully explained, 
Inmarsat was put in the role of providing data, to help 
locate the aircraft, to the government authorities  
in charge of the investigation and now search. 
Inmarsat was created 35 years ago by the UN to 
provide safety services at sea, which evolved to 
safety services in the air as well. We take this global 
public service seriously and we are dedicated to 
providing it. We are proud of the work our teams 
have done to support the efforts to locate the 
missing aircraft and we hope it will, in some way, 
contribute to determining its location, helping  
bring closure to the families involved.
Looking forward, Inmarsat is working hard with the 
global, regional and national aviation authorities,  
to improve the capabilities and standards for 
aviation safety . This involves not only ﬂight tracking, 
but also real-time ﬂight diagnostics, black box over 
the air transmissions (black box in the cloud) and 
many other potential enhancements. Most of  
these capabilities can be enabled using the existing 
communications systems on aircraft, particularly  
on long haul commercial aircraft, in which the vast 
majority already have installed Inmarsat satellite 
services. Let us hope that this tragedy is a catalyst  
to taking ﬂight safety, which is already at a high level, 
to an even higher level of capability for the future.
Our commitment to safety in these remote 
environments remains strong as we invest in new 
safety services. As the only certiﬁed GMDSS (Global 
Maritime Distress Safety Service) provider, we are 
moving forward with plans for how we receive safety 
certiﬁcation for the next generation of Inmarsat 
services. This will assure the mariner that we have 
invested in maritime safety services capabilities  
for many years to come.
In addition, Inmarsat continues to contribute to 
emergency service responders globally . We support, 
ﬁnancially, and with the provision of terminals, 
Télécoms Sans Frontières and the International 
T elecommunications Union (ITU) programmes,  
which provide telecoms connectivity for aid agencies 
and stricken people in times of both human and 
natural disasters. 
Our work with national and local governments 
globally also continues to expand, as the importance 
of having mobile satellite connectivity in situations 
where the terrestrial networks are either taken out of 
service, or congested, becomes seen as an essential 
element of local disaster planning and response.
SUMMARY
In summary, 2014 was another successful year for 
Inmarsat. With the commencement of regional 
Global Xpress services, and a host of new service 
offerings on our existing L-band satellite 
constellations, we are better positioned than ever  
to continue as a leader in providing mobile and 
portable connectivity on land, at sea and in the air. 
We are positioned to grow further as we leverage 
future opportunities resulting from the signiﬁcant 
investments we have made.
We would also like to thank our staff globally for  
their dedication and hard work that has allowed us  
to deliver another year of market-leading quality 
services for our partners and customers. We also 
value the continued support from our shareholders 
and look forward to continuing to deliver value  
to them over the coming years.
ANDREW SUKAWATY
CHAIRMAN
5 March 2015
At the start of 2014  
we purchased Globe 
Wireless, one of the 
major communications 
applications providers  
to the maritime world. 
Looking forward, 
Inmarsat is working  
hard with the global, 
regional and national 
aviation authorities, to 
improve the capabilities  
and standards for  
aviation safety. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 13 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW IN SUMMARY
BUSINESS OVERVIEW 
I am pleased with the overall performance of the 
business in 2014, as we met our ﬁnancial targets  
for the year at the same time as continuing to 
progress several key innovation programmes that 
will play a profound role in our future accelerated 
growth plans. 2014 was a year of transition, en route 
to the global launch of our revolutionary new 
Inmarsat-5 network. We delivered revenue growth  
of 1.9% and EBITDA growth of 8% which was a  
solid achievement.
 > Wholesale Mobile Satellite Services (MSS) 
revenue grew year-on-year 
 > Global Xpress (GX) commercial services started 
on Inmarsat-5 F1, our ﬁrst Inmarsat-5 satellite
 > Inmarsat-5 F2 launched successfully on  
1 February 2015
 > European Aviation Network programme was 
announced and the ﬁrst MSS and complementary 
ground component licences were acquired
 > Integration of Globe Wireless business within  
our Maritime Business Unit has gone well 
 > Disposals of key assets have been handled  
well with no impact on customers
 > Innovative products and services launched 
across all Business Units 
The details of the ﬁnancial performance for  
each of the Business Unit sectors, and our Central 
Services sector (which covers all other parts of the 
business) is provided in the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’ s 
review of the year. In summary, we saw positive 
revenue contributions from our Maritime, Enterprise 
and Aviation businesses, plus a signiﬁcant ﬁnancial 
contribution from LightSquared, reﬂected in overall 
total revenue growth. This was offset by a decline  
in Government revenues – albeit that growing 
contributions from our Global Government business 
stemmed in part the continuing revenue reduction  
in our US Government business.
In May 2014 we raised $1bn on the bond market, 
which allowed us to review our borrowing 
arrangements and put in place cheaper funding.  
We were able to complete the bond transaction 
quickly and successfully, reﬂecting the positive way 
Inmarsat is viewed by ﬁnancial institutions. 
A signiﬁcant contributor to revenues and proﬁtability 
in 2014 was our collaboration with LightSquared. 
Having restarted payments to us under our existing 
cooperation agreement with them during 2014, 
LightSquared delivered revenues of $75.4m in 2014 
almost all of which ﬂows to EBITDA. However, at the 
time of writing, LightSquared remains in Chapter 11 
bankruptcy in the US and there can be no assurance 
RUPERT PEARCE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE  
OFFICER
OUR INVESTMENTS ALLOW US TO  
GROW THROUGH:
 > MAJOR INNOV ATIONS ARE KEY TO 
ACCELERATED GROWTH
 > INVESTMENT SUPPORTING PRODUCT 
AND SERVICE DEVELOPMENT
 > ENHANCING GROWTH THROUGH 
DIVERSIFICATION AND GEOGRAPHIC 
EXPANSION
 > STRENGTHENING OUR GLOBAL 
CHANNEL WITH NEW PARTNERSHIPS
 > EMBRACING ORGANISATIONAL CHANGE
A glossary can be found on pages 134 and 135 of this report.
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 14
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 2014 REVIEW
DRIVING SUCCESS  
THROUGH INNOV A TION that further payments will be received from them 
under this agreement. We remain fully committed  
to supporting LightSquared under the terms of our 
agreement with them. 
 
Later in the Annual Report on pages 20 and 21,  
we lay out details of the markets we operate in,  
the changes we are seeing in how we plan for our 
business growth and I also summarise our strategy 
and key risks within our operations. 
Overall the business has met its objectives 
throughout the year and my review will reﬂect on  
the different activities we undertook and also how 
the contribution of our staff is critical to our success. 
INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS
It has been a very demanding year from an 
infrastructure perspective, as we continue to invest 
heavily in transformational future growth. Exciting 
news in 2014 was the successful deployment of our 
ﬁrst Inmarsat-5 satellite, called Inmarsat-5 F1 or I-5 
F1, which was launched in December 2013; followed 
by the successful launch of our second Inmarsat-5 
satellite, I-5 F2, on 1 February 2015. We were 
delighted that the Proton launch vehicle, which we 
have commissioned for the ﬁrst three Inmarsat-5 
ﬂights, has now successfully delivered into orbit  
two of the three Inmarsat-5 satellites needed  
to ensure seamless global coverage for our 
revolutionary high-throughput services. We are 
planning for the launch of Inmarsat-5 F3 to take 
place in Q2 2015.
I-5 F1 entered regional commercial service mid-way 
during 2014 - meaning that, from the Western coast 
of Africa to the middle of Australia, we are now able 
to offer Global Xpress (GX) services, although not 
yet across our full range of planned service offerings. 
I am delighted to report that Global Xpress is working 
well, with ultra-fast data speeds even to very small 
antenna and rain fade resilience at or better than 
Ku-band competitors. This successful provision of 
service is a signiﬁcant risk retirement on one part  
of the GX programme and means that we can look 
forward with conﬁdence to I-5 F2, also progressing 
safely through its deployment and test stages with a 
view to entering full commercial service in Q2 2015. 
We also have a fourth Inmarsat-5 satellite under 
construction (I-5 F4), due to be delivered in mid 
2016 and we secured a launch option for this 
satellite with SpaceX, a new launch provider for us. 
This substantially de-risks the possibility of damage  
to the GX programme by a launch failure of I-5 F3, 
as I-5 F4 could replace it within roughly a year and  
it can provide us with additional capacity for future 
enhanced growth when we need it. We are already 
developing some incremental business opportunities 
for I-5 F4 to support its launch as an additional 
satellite in the event of a successful I-5 F3 launch. 
In addition to the GX satellite launch and operation 
activities, we enhanced our satellite capabilities.  
We brought Alphasat into service, supporting  
our handheld GSPS services in our most heavily 
trafﬁcked satellite region. Alphasat is Europe’ s most 
sophisticated telecommunications satellite and will 
be of signiﬁcant beneﬁt to us in carrying our L-band 
service trafﬁc in the future and providing redundancy 
for the Inmarsat-4 satellite constellation. 
We also ordered a new satellite, Europasat,  
in partnership with HellasSat. It will deliver new 
S-band services across the European Union. We 
announced in May 2014 the development of a highly 
innovative Air to Ground network, to be integrated with 
Europasat’ s satellite capabilities to target the emerging 
European aviation passenger connectivity markets 
– a key strategic initiative for us. W e will be a leader in 
developing an integrated hybrid satellite-terrestrial 
network for broadband services.
Supporting our new satellite construction 
programmes, we signed an innovative three satellite 
launch deal with SpaceX, the new and rapidly 
emerging launch services company . This positions 
Inmarsat in the vanguard for the use of the new 
Falcon Heavy rocket, which we can use for the 
Inmarsat-5, and the Inmarsat-6 programme. 
Our work is not only about launching and managing 
satellites, it is also about safely decommissioning 
them when they come to their end of life. In 2014  
we successfully deorbited the ﬁnal one of our 
Inmarsat-2 satellites. Once again, this ﬁnal satellite 
in the Inmarsat-2 constellation performed superbly 
throughout its life, operating for more than twice its 
design life, for over 20 years. 
Having a reliable satellite and network capability 
which consistently exceeds 99.9% availability, gives 
us the comfort that our partners and customers  
can rely on us, wherever they are and in whatever 
circumstance they need communications 
connectivity . 
We were delighted that the Proton launch vehicle, 
which we have commissioned for the ﬁrst three 
Inmarsat-5 ﬂights, has now successfully delivered 
into orbit two of the three Inmarsat-5s needed  
to ensure seamless global coverage for our 
revolutionary high-throughput services.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 15 GROWTH THROUGH INNOVATION
We increased the pace of product and service 
innovation in 2014 and this focus has continued  
into 2015 when we held our ﬁrst successful Inmarsat 
Developers Conference in January . We are working 
closely with our traditional partners, as well as some 
new technology partners. In 2014 we launched 
several important new products and services which  
we expect to be signiﬁcant contributors to our  
future growth, including: 
 > IsatPhone 2, our latest high-quality satphone  
that we expect to maintain our strong position  
in the handheld market; 
 > FleetOne, a major broadband product launch  
into the ﬁshing, leisure and coastal merchant 
maritime markets, which we believe is a new 
market opportunity for us; 
 > IsatHub, the ﬁrst step in the reinvention of the 
BGAN product platform, delivering smartphone 
coverage extension for voice and data services  
at low cost; 
 > BGAN HDR, taking the BGAN offering up to new 
data speeds, of particular signiﬁcance for Media, 
Government and high-end Enterprise customers; 
 > Low-proﬁle BGAN , offering a highly-rugged, 
discreet BGAN deployment for security and 
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance 
(ISR) needs; 
 > L -TAC, a hugely innovative way in which we can 
re-purpose our L -band network to support 
thousands of UHF radios already deployed in  
the ﬁeld requiring extension of coverage or 
increased network capacity; and
 > Fleet Media, an innovative way of distributing 
entertainment content (movies, TV shows,  
sports and news) to ships‘ crews. 
We also have products which have been developed 
for use on our GX Ka-band satellites across all  
our varying services – on land, at sea and in the  
air. Government customers have been using GX 
terminals since mid-2014 and other users have been 
coming on-stream in early 2015. We are delighted 
with the collaboration and efforts of our Value Added 
Manufacturing partners for their tireless work with us 
over the last 12 months. 
I am very proud of our achievements in 2014  
and already in 2015 we have really increased the 
pace of our product and service innovation. Success 
will be measured by our relationships and ability to 
work closely and collaboratively with Value Added 
Manufacturers and innovators who are committed, 
agile, inventive and far-sighted. 
GROWTH THROUGH GEOGRAPHIC 
EXPANSION
It is vital to create new growth opportunities through 
sustained innovation; however we can also deliver 
enhanced growth and diversiﬁcation rapidly through 
expanding geographic access to our services. 
We opened a brand new GSPS gateway and BGAN 
SAS in China at the end of 2013 and these facilities 
became fully operational during 2014. This was the 
culmination of years of work to deliver a fully-open 
market for our services in China and we worked 
closely with our local partners to make this a reality . 
We believe there are growing revenue opportunities 
in China.
We are working closely with one of our key partners  
in Russia to assist it in progressing its plans to  
build BGAN ground infrastructure to access and 
terminate our services in Russia. We hope that their 
plans will mature during 2015 and provide future 
additional revenue opportunities through opening 
up hitherto closed markets. 
 
Elsewhere, our internationalisation programme – 
driven by our Global Government group, but  
also rapidly driving growth opportunities for our 
Enterprise team too – is nearly at the end of a  
three-year transformation programme to rebalance 
our government and commercial land activities into 
new and exciting growth markets. We are now 
operating for the ﬁrst time, or have substantially 
enlarged our presence in more than 30 countries 
including Brazil, China, Colombia, Israel, Kazakhstan, 
Oman, Poland, Saudi Arabia, the Scandinavian 
region and Turkey .
T ogether, these ventures are demonstrating 
excellent pipeline growth, so we are optimistic  
that we can achieve revenue growth through 
geographic expansion. 
GROWTH THROUGH CHANNEL 
DEVELOPMENT
A key goal of ours is to support our growth ambitions 
through a strong and positive relationship with our 
global channel partners. 
W e added several important new partners during 
2014 including RigNet, the leading Energy satcoms 
connectivity player , ORBCOMM, the leading M2M 
connectivity platform operator , and Swank/NT Digital 
as the master distributor for our new Fleet Media 
content offering. These new relationships provide an 
important extension to our global coverage and to 
our product and service capabilities. W e also beneﬁt 
from having relationships with highly capable, 
specialist partners to help us in certain geographies 
where they have local knowledge. 
A focus for us over the last year in particular has been 
to ensure we are ready for entry into commercial 
service of our Global Xpress service and to do this 
effectively , we need to have appointed respected  
and capable partners. So far , we have appointed  
27 GX V alue Added Resellers (V ARs) across all our 
Business Units, representing an incredibly powerful 
roster of launch partners for this new service. 
A key goal of ours is to support our growth 
ambitions through a strong and positive  
relationship with our global channel partners. 
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 16
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 2014 REVIEW CONTINUED ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
In recent years we have embraced signiﬁcant 
organisational change in order to be a more agile 
and fast-moving business. Over the last 12 months 
we have created a new Aviation Business Unit which 
is led today by Leo Mondale who has been with the 
Company for 10 years. As part of our management 
succession planning which we review with the 
Inmarsat Board on an annual basis, I am delighted 
that we were able to promote from within to move 
Ronald Spithout from President of our Enterprise 
Business Unit to become President of our Maritime 
Business Unit and we promoted Greg Ewert  
who joined Inmarsat three years ago to head  
the Enterprise Business Unit. Another internal 
appointment was Michele Franci becoming  
our Chief T echnology Ofﬁcer. 
Two senior hires from outside the Company were the 
appointments of T ony Bates as our Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer in June 2014 and Miriam Murphy who joined 
as Group General Counsel in September 2014. Both 
these executives are experienced professionals and 
I’m delighted they’ve chosen to join Inmarsat. We will 
beneﬁt greatly from their experience. I am delighted 
at how the senior management team has responded 
to the new challenges I’ve asked them to manage 
and I believe the business is well led with the 
12-strong Executive team we have in place.
We also undertook a series of internal initiatives  
to improve in many ways how we work and function 
together; the actions in 2014 are termed our  
‘Y ear of Engagement’ and those in 2015 our  
’Y ear of Enablement’. 
We had a staff survey in February 2014 which 
was completed by 94% of our staff – a response  
rate which is outstanding. In the Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) section on pages 45 and 46 
more information is provided on the feedback we 
received from the survey and the actions we took. 
One key indicator was the pride staff feel working  
at Inmarsat. One element of the survey was around 
pay for staff and during 2014 we completed a global 
salary benchmarking review and as a consequence 
committed more than was budgeted to correct 
salaries for staff to take them to more competitive 
levels. After a year where we had a salary freeze in 
2013, it was highly appropriate that we were able  
to adjust staff salaries in 2014 across the Group  
on average by approximately 7%. 
The 2014 ‘Y ear of Engagement’ has transitioned  
into our 2015 ‘Y ear of Enablement’, where we  
are embarking on some signiﬁcant training 
commitments for managers throughout the 
Company and on focused leadership training for  
our Global Leadership T eam, comprising around  
50 staff members from across the business. Another 
focus for the ‘Y ear of Engagement’ is a thorough 
review of our systems and processes with a focus  
on how we can simplify operations and become 
more effective and efﬁcient internally, for example 
through changes in our systems and processes,  
IT infrastructure, billing operations and other  
similar related activities. 
In early 2014 we sold the assets of our retail energy 
business to RigNet, a signiﬁcant oil and gas operator 
in the satellite industry, and around 200 people left 
Inmarsat with the vast majority moving to RigNet. 
We work with many of them now that RigNet is a 
distributor of Inmarsat services and we are very 
pleased with how our relationship is working. Around 
the same time in 2014, we acquired a similar number 
of staff in our Maritime Business Unit when staff 
joined us from Globe Wireless. We are delighted  
how quickly and positively this integration of  
staff has happened.
In 2015 we are 
embarking on some 
signiﬁcant training 
commitments for 
managers and on 
focused leadership 
training for our Global 
Leadership T eam.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD
President,  
Global Government  
Business Unit
ANDY START
Executive Vice President, 
Corporate Development
DEBBIE JONES
President, Maritime  
Business Unit
RONALD SPITHOUT
President, Aviation  
Business Unit
LEO MONDALE
Chief Technology Ofﬁcer
MICHELE FRANCI
Group General Counsel
MIRIAM MURPHY
President, US Government  
Business Unit
PETER HADINGER
President, Enterprise  
Business Unit
GREG EWERT
Group Chief  
Operations Ofﬁcer
RUY PINTO
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
RUPERT PEARCE
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
TONY BATES
Executive Vice President, 
Corporate Governance  
and Company Secretary
ALISON HORROCKS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 17
