 5
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
The Innovation Group provides outsourcing services and software
solutions to improve policy and claims management for the world’s
insurance market. Our vision is to enable efficiencies to improve
revenue generation, customer service and profitability. The Group
is totally focused on this market and delivers these two broad
offerings through a single client-centric organisation.
We are a global player operating in the world’s largest insurance
markets with a strong proportion of our clients being international
in nature. Our 1200 people across the world have extensive insurance
experience and they are ably supported by our partners.
The year in review
During 2005 we made strong underlying progress in our business. 
We enjoyed robust cash generation with an operating cash inflow of
£8.9m. Our strategy to migrate the business model continues to be
successful, with recurring revenue up from £30.9m in 2004 to £40.5m
in 2005. 67% of our total revenue is now recurring, allowing us
improved visibility and reduced reliance on unpredictable licence
sales over time. However, during this financial year, licence revenue
was still disproportionately important to the Group’s overall financial
result and consequently the year was adversely impacted by a
disappointing level of up front licence sales. 
The outsourcing business continued to perform well with over 25
new or extended relationships formed during the year . Outsourcing
has developed well in the geographies of Australia, Germany and
the United Kingdom and we look to find opportunities for them to
emulate South Africa as a major profit and growth contributor. 
We delivered our major Policy software system to CSAA in the USA,
and also won a new client for each of our Policy and Claims software
applications. We continue to invest in our software partnership with
IBM and announced a new five year strategic partnership with them
in March 2005.
During the year we continued our M&A activity with the acquisition
of Websoft in South Africa and the disposal of our small Public Sector
consulting business in the USA to further intensify our focus on the
insurance market. 
Financial results
As we set out in our trading statement at the end of September 2005
approximately £7.5m of licence income which was expected in the
fourth quarter was not concluded. One of the transactions was
particularly significant but it is now more likely that the deal will be
split into smaller components.
Our revenue for the year ended 30 September 2005 was £61.0m
(2004: £58.1m); recurring revenues increased from £30.9m to £40.5m
and now represent 67% of the Group’s total revenue. Software (TSD)
turnover was £26.0m (2004: £32.9m) and outsourcing (SBPO) turnover
was £35.0m (2004: £25.2m). 
Adjusted profit* was £3.0m (2004: £7.5m) and loss before tax was
£11.3m (2004: loss of £7.3m), representing adjusted EPS of 0.33p
(2004: 1.49p) and basic loss per share of 2.94p (2004: loss per share
of 1.98p).
*Adjusted profit is the profit before tax after adding back the amortisation
charge of £14.3m and a loss on disposal of operations of £0.1m as analysed
on page 13.
Organisation and employees
Until now the Group has operated as two divisions, Technology
Solutions Division (TSD) and Specialised Business Process
Outsourcing (SBPO), each with its own Chief Operating Officer (COO).
This was an important strategy for developing a choice of offerings
for our clients. As we move to the next stage of our development, we
have created a single client-facing organisation which will deliver
an integrated outsourcing and software offering in each of the major
territories. Eric Wadsworth, who was COO of SBPO, will focus on
developing the regions globally as COO for the Group. Ed Ossie,
previously COO of TSD, will concentrate his efforts on developing
the IBM relationship to further the global distribution of our software
as well as leading the marketing of the company to increase brand
awareness. 
I would like to pay tribute to the outstanding teamwork and
commitment to clients displayed by our people. I would also like to
extend a warm welcome to our new recruits and to partners’
employees, who are working with us on client engagements. I would
like to thank all employees for their invaluable contribution to the
progress made during the year. The Group continues to attract and
retain some of the best people in the industry and we recognise them
as the foundation of our future success. 
Our strategy to migrate
the business model 
continues to be successful,
with recurring revenue up
from £30.9m in 2004 to
£40.5m in 2005.
“
”
R&A AW Front16_2005 5  18/1/06  11:20 am  Page 5 6
The Board and Corporate Governance
In line with the changes to executive management, we are also
streamlining the Board. Hassan Sadiq, Chief Executive Officer and
Paul Smolinski, Group Finance Director will continue as the executive
directors of the Group. Ed Ossie, Eric Wadsworth and Steve Scott
move from the PLC board to the operating board, and I would like to
take this opportunity on behalf of the shareholders to thank them for
their tireless contribution to the PLC Board, and will look forward to
their ongoing contribution as members of the Group’s executive
management team.
Chris Banks and David Thorpe continue as non-executive directors
and chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees
respectively, and I remain as non-executive Chairman of the Board.
This ratio of executive directors to non-executive directors (2:3) is now
in line with best practice corporate governance for a company of 
The Innovation Group’s size.
The Group has been in full compliance with the provisions of the
Combined Code throughout the year .
EGM and future reporting requirements 
Following the approval of the resolutions at the Group’s EGM on 
29 June 2005, we have finalised the capital reduction and restructured
the Company’s balance sheet. This has restored the Company’s
distributable reserves and thus enables the Group to be in a position
to pay dividends when it is appropriate to do so.
The Prospectus Directive, issued on 1 July 2005, has removed the
requirement for companies such as The Innovation Group, which
listed under chapter 25 of the old Listing Rules, to report to
shareholders on a quarterly basis. We will therefore be reporting to
shareholders at the half year and full year, as is the case with the vast
majority of UK Listed companies. The next set of results released
following these preliminary results for the year ended 30 September
2005 will therefore be for the half year ended 31 March 2006. 
Outlook
The Group is in a much stronger position as we enter 2006. The level
of recurring revenue has increased, reducing our reliance on upfront
licence fees and underpinning planned growth in the coming years. 
We now have an extensive outsourcing client base and the pipelines
remain healthy in each geography. We anticipate organic growth to
continue in 2006 through our simple objective of delivering more
benefits to more clients in more markets.
Software licence sales still remain attractive and we now have a
better business model through which to manage the volatility of
software licence revenue. The software pipeline is healthy, particularly
in North America where we have put most focus, and there are a
number of opportunities which are reaching the latter stages of the
sales cycle. Our five year relationship with IBM gives us the platform
to distribute our software products on a global basis and we anticipate
seeing some results from this investment in the 2006 financial year .
In summary, we aim to continue the momentum gained throughout
2005. Our business plan calls for further organic revenue growth
augmented by selected acquisitions. In addition, we plan for Group
operating margins to improve over the coming year and we look
forward to the future with optimism.
Geoff Squire, OBE
Chairman
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT continued
Outsourcing is expected 
to regain interest from
insurers due to the 
proven cost savings and
increasing flexibility of
arrangements. 
Datamonitor, June 2005
“
”
R&A AW Front16_2005 5  17/1/06  7:05 pm  Page 6 7
Our best interests are always the driving force
behind any action that The Innovation Group
takes; seeking out data opportunities, 
proposing new product ideas, and simply
excelling in our sales targets is an added 
benefit to the aforementioned philosophy.
Megan Parker, Marketing Manager
AMH Financial Services, South Africa
“
”
EXCEEDING EXPECTATIONS 
R&A AW Front16_2005 5  17/1/06  7:05 pm  Page 7
