 8
During 2005 we continued to strengthen the visibility and predictability
of our revenue and to generate a robust cash flow. Recurring revenue
is now the driving force behind long term revenue and profit growth,
and our dependence on the lumpy flow of up front licence
transactions will continue to diminish. Our commitment to quality
service is paramount, and our satisfied clients are willing to share
their positive views on our company, people and products. This
continues to increase our momentum in the markets that we serve.
We have conducted a strategic reorganisation, designed to better
structure the business into a single client-facing entity capable of
offering an integrated outsourcing and software capability in each of
our geographies. This move enforces our transformation to a specialist
provider to the insurance industry. 
Strategic update
Market drivers
We operate within a rapidly transforming global insurance market
driven principally by deregulation, new technology and the need to
improve efficiency within client organisations. Each market varies in
the rate of change and is dependent on culture, market dynamics and
deregulation. Industry transformation is inspiring new entrants, such
as banks, supermarkets, car manufacturers and others to add
insurance to their portfolio of services, and this in turn enables us
to widen our target market. 
These market drivers are forcing the remainder of the industry to
change to remain competitive. One of the major inhibitors to
undergoing the necessary change, however, is the software in use,
as most systems were implemented a few decades ago.
However, technology alone is not the answer. There are a host of
other crucial components with which software must be integrated for
a favourable return on investment. For example, when The Innovation
Group clients entrust us with managing a part or all of the process
through our outsourcing service, we are able to deliver not only the
pioneering software but also those other elements, such as retraining
integration and expertise in both technology and insurance, that will
ensure success.
Vision
The Group’s vision is to help the insurance industry to provide a
better service to policyholders by implementing leading edge
practices and technology for the administration of policies and the
handling of claims.
Products
We have assembled a wide portfolio of important assets comprising
high quality software technology for both policy and claims
administration, and a set of business processes for the handling of
many aspects of back office functions for insurers and risk carriers.
We offer these assets either as a software and service implementation
project, or as an outsourced service, and this choice enables our
clients to embark on lower risk, lower cost transformations and the
opportunity to gain a high impact return on investment. Our focus is
now to make these assets available to a wider client audience. 
Roadmap
Our strategy is to develop a single client-facing organisation, which
will deliver an integrated outsourcing and software offering in each
of the major territories. This organisation will enable us to benefit
from our considerable successes and to leverage them for the benefit
of clients and markets across the world.
We are the market leader in insurance outsourcing in South Africa
and we aim to extend these outsourcing services to our global
operations. This involves expanding the range of categories we
provide in other territories beyond our traditional market of motor
to include household claims administration activities, warranty
administration and the administration of public sector claims. We will
then follow our successful business model for launching these
products which is a staged process whereby we establish a reputation
for ourselves in relation to each piece of the value chain in turn and
underpin the outsourcing service with our own software.
We will continue to build on our software successes in the United
States by aiming to add more clients and increasing our visibility in
the markets in which we operate. 
We will continue to invest in our new five year relationship with IBM,
believing that this is the most effective way to reach the largest
insurers and to broaden the distribution of our software. To facilitate
this we are fully dedicating Ed Ossie, one of our most senior executives,
to ensuring the success of this partnership.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
The Group’s vision is to 
help the insurance industry
to provide a better service
to policyholders by 
implementing leading edge
practices and technology
for the administration of
policies and the handling 
of claims.
“
”
R&A AW Front16_2005 5  17/1/06  7:05 pm  Page 8 9
We strongly believe that if we follow this course, we will achieve our
simple objective of delivering more benefits to more clients in more
markets.
Geographic review
South Africa, which provides many of the elements of the insurance
value chain on an outsourced basis, has revenue growth of 65% (31%
organically) with revenue of £23.1m for the year ended 30 September
2005. The technology acquisition of Websoft announced on 1 July
2005 contributed £0.5m to revenue in the year . We continue to explore
the possibility of a partnership to address the Black Economic
Empowerment (BEE) rules legislated by the South African
government. We are discussing with potential partners to help us
address these issues and help us further extend our product range
and take advantage of the unique opportunities that are available in
this part of the world.
In Europe, we have a solid revenue base of £16.4m (2004: £27.2m).
We have made significant progress in integrating our outsourcing
and technology offerings in the UK. We have a software business
servicing tier one clients as well as claims outsourcing for motor
and household. UK revenues are £13.6m (2004: £25.3m). Revenue for
our UK technology business is substantially lower than last year due
to the successful completion of product implementation projects
and the absence of a significant up-front licence this year . However,
the UK pipeline has been steadily improving. An important pilot for
policy software was completed successfully and although
negotiations are continuing for the licencing of the software and it is
now more likely that the deal will be split into smaller components.
In Germany, where we perform claims outsourcing for motor
insurance, we have seen revenue growth of 47% in 2005 to £2.8m
(2004: £1.9m) as a result of an increase in the volumes from existing
clients. All of the revenue in Germany is recurring and transactional.
We are looking to extend the product range in Germany and also to
use the country as a base to further extend into Central Europe.
In North America, the largest insurance market in the world, revenue
has grown by 31% to £16.7m (2004: £12.7m) in 2005. All revenue is
software related. The pipeline is healthy and is underpinned by the
two wins in 2005 of our Policy and Claims systems. In addition, work
continues on the new Policy engagement referred to in our trading
statement in September 2005, although the licence element is still
under negotiation. We continue to work closely with IBM on tier 1 and
tier 2 insurance companies. Our pipelines in North America have
continued to grow due to an increased level of sales enquiries. During
2006 we will continue to carefully qualify all sales opportunities and
be selective in which we pursue as we are now seeing a more
demanding contract and due diligence process from our clients. 
We continue to explore the opportunities for outsourcing in North
America as we believe this represents a significant opportunity for
the Group.
In Asia Pacific, the revenue has grown by 14% to £4.8m (2004: £4.2m).
Our activities comprise outsourcing for motor claims and warranty
administration in Australia and software sales in both Japan and
Australia. Outsourcing revenue has increased relative to the same
period last year and we have launched the warranty administration
product into the Australian market. Revenue in the Australian
technology business has fallen compared to last year, however the
pilot work with a new client is continuing and we are hopeful that this
will result in a full roll out, now forecast to be in early 2006. We are
also working with IBM to distribute our technology products in Japan
and the Asian market. 
Summary
In summary, we aim to grow organically by adding more products and
services to our existing substantial client base. This will be
underpinned by our stronger pipeline and our targeting of top tier
insurers through our relationship with IBM. The existing client
relationships, of which we have over 90, are the backbone to our
future growth. 
Where appropriate we will also look to consolidate smaller players
and add capability into existing regions via strategic and tactical
acquisitions to further expand our outsourcing service offering.
Hassan Sadiq
Chief Executive
Claims and policy 
administration remain the
key areas for technology
spend for non-life and 
life insurers.
Datamonitor, June 2005
“
”
R&A AW Front16_2005 5  17/1/06  7:05 pm  Page 9 Our relationship with The Innovation Group has been
a great success. Customers, agents and claims 
handlers alike have expressed ever-increasing levels
of satisfaction and, due to the significant reduction 
in our claims costs as a result of the Group’s 
efficient network, we have even been able to lower
our customers’ premiums.
Ulrich Schmitz, Head of Claims Processes Vehicle
Gothaer Insurance, Germany
“
”
EXTENDING OUR IMPACT 
10
R&A AW Front16_2005 5  17/1/06  7:05 pm  Page 10
