 8
We have had an excellent year in 2006 with good momentum going
into 2007. Revenue has grown by 23% organically, increasing to 31%
including the acquisitions during the year . Recurring revenue, which
gives us visibility and predictability, reached 70% of total revenue as
dependence on one-off licences continued to reduce. Adjusted proﬁts
have increased from £3.6m in 2005 to £10.9m in 2006 and 69% of
these profits are derived from outsourcing. We have had seven
signiﬁcant new licence deals, including extensions, often with support
from our partner IBM. The majority of our growth in 2006 has come
from existing clients as we extend our products and services to them.
Our client base is made up of over 120 major brands. The five
acquisitions completed during the year have strengthened our
geographic reach and will bring further cross selling opportunities.
We also continue to generate cash, which we have used this year to
help fund these acquisitions. In summary the success in 2006 helps
underpin the future for our Group. 
Strategic update
2006 has been our ﬁrst year of operating as a single client-centric
organisation, aiming to offer outsourcing and software capabilities in
each of our geographic markets and I am delighted with the progress
that has been made. 
We have assembled a wide portfolio of important assets comprising
high quality software technology for both policy and claims
administration, and a set of business processes for the handling of
many aspects of back ofﬁce functions for insurers and risk carriers.
We offer these assets either as a software and service implementation
project, or as an outsourced service. This choice enables our clients
to embark on lower risk, lower cost transformations and provides
them with the opportunity to gain a high impact return on investment.
Our focus is now to make these services available to a wider client
audience. 
Market drivers
The global insurance industry is in a state of transition, driven
principally by technology and the growth of the internet and regulatory
change. It is facing increased underwriting risks, a highly competitive
landscape, complicated sales channels and demanding customers.
These combined factors have led to the need to reduce costs and
become operationally efﬁcient and are fuelling the demand for the
outsourcing of business processes (including claims handling) by
insurance companies. 
We are experiencing buoyant market conditions. Clients are looking
for vendors who can offer transformational solutions through the
use of software and outsourcing. We have seen this trend increase
in recent years and see growing opportunities. 
Market risks
Under the new EU reporting requirements, the Board is obliged to
comment on the risk factors facing the business. As with any business,
risks may affect the Group, its results and the Board’s ability to deliver
on its strategy. 
One of the key risk factors faced by the Group is the timing of software
milestones and project delivery relative to the Group’s financial
calendar. This risk has reduced over the last year because of our
growing proportion of recurring revenue, but the timing and recognition
of licence revenue is difﬁcult to predict and during 2007 we have
contractual licence milestones which will weight the licence revenue
recognition to the second half of the year . 
Another main risk area is our clients’ strategy and in particular any
changes in their approach to technology or outsourcing. By
concentrating on service level agreements and ensuring we provide
excellent value we are doing our best to minimise this risk. 
The Group’s footprint within certain territories compared to competitors
can also be a risk. Our acquisitions during the year and the acquisitions
in the US post year end have further extended our scale and geographic
reach, thereby improving our competitive position.
The Group’s results are exposed to foreign exchange rate volatility as
approximately 75% of our revenue is denominated in foreign currencies. 
The Group’s South African operation faces unique regulatory challenges
with the Black Economic Empowerment rules. However, we are looking
at solutions which will help us address these issues to further extend
our product range and take advantage of the unique opportunities
available in this part of the world.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
2006 has been our ﬁrst
year of operating as a
single client-centric
organisation, aiming to
offer outsourcing and
software capabilities in
each of our geographic
markets.
“
” 9
Geographic review
South Africa, which provides many of the elements of the insurance
value chain on an outsourced basis, saw revenue growth of 35% (all
organic) with revenue of £31.1m for the year ended 30 September
2006 (2005: £23.1m). The market in South Africa is buoyant. 
In Europe, revenue has grown by 72% (46% organically) to £28.1m
(2005: £16.3m).
In the UK, we have a software business servicing tier one clients as
well as claims outsourcing for motor and household. UK revenues
have grown by 50% (49% organically) to £20.2m (2005: £13.5m).
During the year a major client extended the use of a Policy licence
and entered into an agreement to use the Group’s Policy Services
software. Interest in the Group’s offerings continue to increase and
subsequent to the year end, two signiﬁcant new software deals were
signed as well as three new outsourcing contracts, which help to
underpin our expectations for 2007. There was signiﬁcant growth in
outsourcing in the UK (on the household side) as we continued to
extend business with existing clients.
In Germany, we have seen revenue growth of 182% (organically 35%)
in 2006 to £7.9m (2005: £2.8m). During 2006 we have transformed the
business from a single revenue stream (motor) through acquisition
and internal investment in a multiple service provider to the insurance
and ﬂeet industry. The acquisition of Service Konzept has already
delivered two signiﬁcant clients as a result of cross-selling and we
have extended the product range of Service Konzept since acquisition.
In North America, the largest insurance market in the world, revenue
has decreased by 9% (all organic) to £15.3m (2005: £16.7m) in 2006.
This reduction is due to the discontinued public sector business
which contributed £1.8m of revenue in 2005. All revenue is currently
software related. 
In the US we have established our brand over the last three years
through investment in our software in order to improve our capability
in the US market. This has helped us during 2006, as a North
American client has started to implement both the Group’s Policy and
Claims systems. We also continue to work closely with IBM on
targeting tier one and tier two insurance companies.
The enhanced credibility arising from these initiatives has given us
the conﬁdence to enter into the outsourcing market in North America,
resulting in the recent acquisitions of First Notice Systems (FNS)
and Sureplan US.
In Asia Paciﬁc, revenue grew by 7% (organically -6%) to £5.1m (2005:
£4.8m). We saw good growth in Australia with outsourcing revenue
increasing by 12% and software increasing by 25% year on year . Japan
has declined as one of our clients has completed its implementation.
In 2006 we had two signiﬁcant software wins in Australia. The most
signiﬁcant win was to provide the software for one of the leading
direct insurers in Australia and will be worth approximately £4.5m over
ﬁve years. The outsourcing operation continues to gain momentum
and the acquisition of Sureplan Australia enables us to expand our
offerings to the leasing and ﬂeet sectors. Sureplan’s largest client
signed a contract extension at the end of the ﬁnancial year providing
revenues through to the end of the ﬁnancial year 2009.
Summary
We aim to continue to build our recurring revenue base, which will
further increase visibility within the business. We have made a good
start to our 2007 ﬁnancial year with two UK software wins as well as
several new outsourcing contracts. Organic growth remains an
important focus as we continue to cross-sell our products into
different geographies and in particular expand the outsourcing service
across North America, following the acquisition of Sureplan US and
completion of FNS, which is expected imminently. Our relationship
with IBM also remains a focus as we concentrate on a select number
of potential joint targets. 
We will continue to look to selectively consolidate smaller players who
can add capability into existing regions and niche operators who can
provide new products to enhance the current portfolio. 
Hassan Sadiq
Chief Executive
Adjusted proﬁts have
increased from £3.6m 
in 2005 to £10.9m in 
2006 and 69% of these
proﬁts are derived 
from outsourcing. 
“
” We partnered with Innovation Group because 
their technology solution aligns itself with what 
Aviva Canada clearly believes is important to 
our customer – efﬁcient and effective service in 
a once and done process – in an environment 
ﬂexible enough to improve work processes 
along the way.
Greg Somerville, Executive Vice President, 
Claims and Reinsurance
Aviva Canada
“
”
SHARED VISION – 
CUSTOMER FOCUS
10
