 8
We have had a record year in both revenue and adjusted proﬁt in
2007 and in constant currency terms our performance would have
been even stronger. Through both organic growth and acquisitions
in North America, Europe and Africa we continue to extend our global
reach and our business delivered 39% (2006: 31%) year on year
revenue growth. In constant currencies this growth would have been
51%. Our customer base which exceeds 200 worldwide, before the
post year-end Nobilas acquisition, increasingly provides a revenue
stream that is of a recurring nature and hence more predictable. We
manage in excess of 3 million transactions across the world. 
Strategic update
Our conversion to a technology-led Business Process Outsourcing
group, founded upon longer term contracts that provide a recurring
revenue stream, is now complete. 
As a technology business we continue to develop innovative new
products for use both within our own outsourcing business and where
required for licence sales, with implementation of both provided by
our own dedicated solution delivery resource. 
In servicing our customers we provide both pan-European and global
capabilities which are unrivalled. The FNS acquisition and our post
year end Nobilas acquisition have significantly added to these
capabilities.
Market drivers
The global insurance industry continues to face competitive and
regulatory challenges that require it to seek initiatives that reduce
both their own transaction processing costs and the costs of the
underlying claim which are a considerable proportion of their
premium income and their costs. Innovation is well placed to provide
a technology solution for high volume lower value claims processing
and supply chain management which is increasingly demanded on
a multi-national basis.
Operational review
Innovation has now completed the transformation to a technology–led
Business Process Outsourcing provider reﬂected in the fact that 77%
of revenues are now recurring. 
During 2007 we have signed several multi-million pound outsourcing
contracts with blue-chip clients, including the Group’s largest ever
BPO deal with Royal & Sun Alliance. Our outsourcing segment now
represents 68% of Group revenue (2006: 61%) and 71% (2006: 69%)
of Group adjusted profit. This represents a year on year revenue
increase of £27.1m or 56%.
Licences, software rental, maintenance, solution delivery and hosting
revenues were £35.1m (2006: £31.3m) up 12%. Our software segment
now represents 32% of Group revenue (2006: 39%) and 29% (2006:
31%) of Group adjusted proﬁt. In line with our strategic shift to a
recurring revenue model, there has been a 35% increase in our
recurring software revenues to £9.6m (2006: £7.1m) and one-time
licence fees decreased by almost half to £3.7m.
In North America we achieved revenue growth of 68% largely arising
from the acquisition of FNS in late December 2006. These results
reﬂect nine full months of FNS activity being revenues of £8.7m and
proﬁt before tax of £1.8m. The integration of FNS within Innovation’s
existing US activities is proceeding ahead of plan. Our acquisition of
51% of Sureplan International Pty Limited in the US in October 2006
was augmented in August 2007 by the purchase of the remaining
49%. Our solution delivery business has had an excellent year
reﬂecting the global expertise and professionalism of our technology
focussed staff. Our exclusive partnership with IBM for software sales
resulted in one US-based software and solution delivery contract
win during the year and we remain conﬁdent of further wins arising
from this relationship, which has been further strengthened by the
establishment of an insurance centre of excellence with IBM
Bangalore, India.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
“
We aim to continue the
momentum gained throughout
2007. Our business plan calls
for further organic growth
augmented by selected
acquisitions.
”
TIG R&A AW Front   25/1/08  10:27  Page 8 9
There was another strong performance from our well established
and market leading business in South Africa which achieved 10%
revenue growth. In local currency terms the business performed in
excess of its own target, growing revenues 30% year on year . This is
a credit to the new management team following the relocation of Eric
Wadsworth to the US. Holmswood and Back and Manson Pty Limited,
a travel insurance company in which we acquired a 61.86% stake 
in November 2006, contributed £1.4m to the profit before tax of 
the Group.
In the UK we secured revenue growth of 36% and commenced the
Group’s largest ever outsourcing contract with Royal & Sun Alliance
worth £25m revenue over 5 years. Through developing our existing
property business model we have secured a leading UK market
position ready for further expansion. Motorcare has performed well
and is suitably positioned to consolidate the UK operations acquired
from Nobilas post year-end. We secured two major software
contracts for the implementation of Innovation products in the
property and auto sectors which are in progress at the year end with
delivery timed for 2008. There was one major licence extension
recorded during the year .
Revenue growth in Germany was 101% and the outsourcing property
and motor business continues to grow both organically and through
integration of the acquisitions of Service Konzept and IFN, the parts
supply business that was acquired in October 2006. Our motor division
is well placed to consolidate the German operations acquired from
Nobilas post year-end.
Our Australian business performed to expectations with revenue
growth of 41% integrating newly acquired Sureplan Australia Pty. We
completed a major software solution delivery project during the year .
The Japanese business continues to suffer from poor sales conversion.
Going forward we aim to continue the momentum gained throughout
2007. Our business plan calls for further organic revenue growth
augmented by selected acquisitions. Following the Nobilas acquisition,
as in 2007, we anticipate a bias towards the second half of the year .
Market risks and uncertainties
As required by EU reporting requirements the Board monitors the risk
factors facing the business. As with any company, risks may affect
the Group, its results and the Board’s ability to deliver strategy. The
Board has reduced or mitigated certain risks during the year,
speciﬁcally with reference to the minimisation of the dependence
upon the timing of software milestones, project delivery and the
regulatory challenges of BEE in South Africa.
Key risks and uncertainties include:
• On a global basis the Group needs to remain competitive 
• The Group is dependent upon the maintenance of service level
agreements with insurance industry clients
• The Group relies on its relationships with its supplier networks
• The Group’s software solutions must remain technologically
competitive and the associated intellectual property must be
properly protected
• The Group is exposed to certain external risks including exchange
translation risks (as approximately 75% of Innovation revenues
are generated outside of the UK) or the ﬁnancial failure of a major
customer
Black Economic Empowerment (“BEE”)
As previously announced, the Group completed the ZAR 132m (£9.6m)
restructuring of its South African subsidiary passing a 25% equity
stake in its South African subsidiary to Inthutuko Investments Limited
(Inthutuko). Inthutuko is 78% owned by Innovation employees in South
Africa through an Employee Beneﬁt Trust and 22% by Jala Capital
Investments Limited and was ﬁnanced by a ZAR 132m (£9.6m) loan
from Barclays Bank. This loan is guaranteed by The Innovation Group
plc. With our improved BEE status in South Africa we are well placed
to secure new customers from a strong pipeline in sectors that require
BEE pre-qualiﬁcation as well as developing new business with existing
customers. 
Hassan Sadiq
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Innovation has now completed
the transformation to a
technology-led Business
Process Outsourcing provider
reﬂected in the fact that 77% of
revenues are now recurring.
“
”
TIG R&A AW Front   25/1/08  10:27  Page 9 10
CUSTOMER FOCUS &
SATISFACTION
Innovation Group under delegated authority provides a
valuable service to CIS in validating a variety of home 
contents insurance claims.
In 2006, from 3836 closed cases, Innovation Group
reported savings prior to deduction of expenses at nearly
£1,400,000. 62% of all claims closed were validated.
Year to date 2007, from 3789 closed cases reported
savings prior to deduction of expenses are £1,440,000. 
65% of all claims closed were validated.
Lee Millward, Team Manager, CIS – UK
“
”
Great discoveries and 
improvements invariably involve 
the cooperation of many minds.
Alexander Bell – 1847-1922
“
”
TIG R&A AW Front   25/1/08  10:27  Page 10
