 5
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
The Innovation Group is a technology-led Business Process Outsourcer
(“BPO”) that provides software and outsourcing services to the
insurance industry . Our vision is to provide technology and best practice
for the administration of policies and claims for the world’s insurers and
risk carriers. The Group is totally focussed on this market and delivers
its two broad offerings through a single client-centric organisation. 
We are a multinational player operating in the world’s largest insurance
markets with a strong proportion of our clients being international in
nature. Our 2,400 people across the world have extensive insurance
experience and they are ably supported by our partners.
The year in review
During 2008 we made strong progress in expanding our brand across
global markets. We grew our revenue by 27%, expanded into three
new European geographies, gained over 70 contracts with new and
existing clients and launched new auto and property services in the US.
However, the year also witnessed unprecedented turbulence with
resultant operational challenges. Whilst we saw strong organic revenue
growth and the successful integration of Nobilas Claims and Fleet
Solutions Limited (“Nobilas”) and National Service Network Holdings
Limited (“NSN”), performance was impacted by contract delays, slower
than expected volume ramp in the North American BPO business and
other issues caused by both internal and external factors. 
In December 2007 we completed the acquisition of Nobilas, the
accident management business of Akzo Nobel, which has expanded
our European footprint into France, Benelux and Spain and has also
taken us into the ﬂeet management and leasing markets. We have
now fully integrated this acquisition with our existing motor operations
to give us a truly pan-European offering. 
In June 2008 we acquired NSN, the company which manages the
largest centrally controlled network of independent maintenance and
repair garages in the UK. This acquisition expands our offering to
include regular repair, servicing and maintenance of our client’s
vehicles in addition to accident management. 
Project Enterprise is the implementation of our own services orientated
architecture (“SOA ”) based Innovation Insurer technology as a common
platform to support our global BPO business. This multi-year global
project is continuing to meet all our expectations in terms of quality,
timescales and budgets. Project Enterprise will give us the most
technically advanced capability in our sector and will provide signiﬁcant
ﬂexibility and operational efﬁciencies for our clients.
Financial Results
Total revenues for 2008 are £139.9m (2007: £110.5m) an increase of
27%. Recurring revenues represent 84% (2007: 77%). Organic growth
was 15.2% (2007: 10.5% restated). Adjusted proﬁt is £10.1m (2007:
£16.1m), and the loss before tax was £3.8m (2007: proﬁt £10.4m). 
We are disappointed with these reductions which reﬂect increased
investment in both BPO and technology capacity, investment into new
BPO products in the US, a customer contract settlement, delayed
contracts and acquisition integration costs.  
Towards the end of the year, we undertook a restructuring of the
business to reﬂect the current conditions and improve operational
efﬁciency, the beneﬁts of which will be felt in 2009.
*Adjusted proﬁt before tax is (loss)/proﬁt before tax after adding back
the amortisation charge of £3.4m, impairment charge of £1.2m, a
share based payments charge of £2.5m, exceptional charges of £6.3m
and the utilisation of pre-acquisition tax losses of £0.5m as analysed
on the face of the income statement.
Organisation and employees
I would like to pay tribute to the outstanding teamwork and
commitment to clients displayed by our employees during a year which
presented a very challenging economic environment. I would also like
to compliment our partners’ employees who are working with us on
client engagements. Innovation continues to attract and retain some
of the best people in the industry and we recognise them as the
foundation of our success. 
Corporate Governance and the Board 
The Group has been in full compliance with the provisions of the
Combined Code throughout the year . 
On 10 October 2008 Paul Hemsley resigned as Group Finance Director
and Jane Hall was appointed Acting Group Finance Director with
immediate effect.
Dividend policy
The Board has recommended a ﬁnal dividend of 0.05 pence per share.
When combined with the interim dividend of 0.15 pence per share this
equates to full year dividends of 0.20 pence per share (2007: 0.30
pence per share). This ﬁnal dividend will be proposed at the Annual
General Meeting on 16 March 2009 and if approved, paid on 31 March
2009. The record date will be 27 February 2009.
Outlook
The Board is pleased with the increase in demand for its products and
services, although it has been a challenging year to turn this revenue
into proﬁt and cash generation. In addition, we have made strategic
investments during the year on distribution (Nobilas), services (NSN)
and their integration and also technology infrastructure.
The outlook for the global economy is uncertain, which in common with
other businesses is creating difﬁculty in forecasting. Nevertheless our
clients are being driven more sharply to seek cost savings and
efﬁciency gains, and we are well placed to beneﬁt from these trends
in 2009 and beyond.
Geoff Squire, OBE
Chairman
TIG R&A AW Front 08  27/1/09  14:47  Page 5
