 6
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
Overview
2008 has been a mixed year for Innovation and we were disappointed
with the reduction in adjusted proﬁt. Adjusted proﬁt is £10.1m (2007:
£16.1m), and the loss before tax was £3.8m (2007: proﬁt £10.4m).
These reductions reﬂect increased investment in BPO new products,
technology capacity, a customer contract settlement and acquisition
integration costs.
Innovation Group provides technology enabled outsourcing to the
global insurance industry and our offerings are attracting record
demand. We have seen significant organic growth and product
innovation and we have also successfully completed the integration
of our businesses to become a uniﬁed global player in the insurance
and risk carrier market. 
Revenues for the year have risen 27% and organic growth is 15.2%,
up from 10.5% in 2007. We have expanded our customer base, which
is now in excess of 1,000 customers, managing over four million
transactions worldwide, whilst our recurring revenues have continued
to increase year-on-year . 
We have successfully integrated two substantial acquisitions, Nobilas
and NSN, and through the restructuring of our business this year, we
have expanded our capacity and service portfolio to meet the record
demand for our services across all geographies. 
The US BPO business was impacted by a number of major contracts
either being delayed or signed later than expected. Whilst this led to
a reduction in profits for 2008, the rising volumes from these
contracts are helping to underpin our 2009 expectations, with
revenues already beginning to ﬂow through.
Company Strategy
As a leading specialist technology-led BPO provider, we continue to
innovate and create new products for use by our clients. We licence
these products both directly to clients and through partners such as
IBM. In addition, we have set up a multi-year programme called Project
Enterprise for use within our own outsourcing business. 
Our focus is on developing new solutions where appropriate and
providing a responsive and sustainable service which exceeds customer
expectations, and helps them to meet their needs for efficiency,
productivity and proﬁtability.
Operating as a single client-centric organisation our key objective and
goal is to service more clients with more incidents globally. We now
have unrivalled global capabilities, expanded and enhanced this year
through our acquisitions of Nobilas and NSN.
Market Drivers and Business Model
Despite the economic downturn, industry analysts expect the BPO
market to continue to grow across all geographic areas. According to 
a Gartner report (July 2008) in the ﬁnancial services industry this is 
forecast to be 10.5% compound annual growth rate (CAGR) which
we expect to exceed. 
With increasing competition and decreasing investment returns,
insurance companies are looking to reduce overheads and are
striving to improve risk management in the wake of recent ﬁnancial
pressures. Commercial challenges faced by insurers include the
need to strengthen customer relationships and develop tailored and
targeted products and services in the face of more exacting customer
demands and increased competition. Pressure from regulators and
rating agencies alike sees more focus on technology-enabled BPO
to provide consistency, automation and improved quality. 
Our combination of technology efﬁcient BPO capability and specialist
insurance knowledge offers clients ﬂexibility, together with innovative
new products, reduced cost, improved service and opportunities to
enter new markets on a multinational basis. 
Operational Review
Our excellent momentum from 2007 has led to good overall revenue
growth in 2008. As pioneers of the combined BPO and software
business model, our overall positioning is resulting in signiﬁcant
global demand and sustainable growth. This year it has brought us
multi-million pound contract wins with blue-chip organisations across
all areas of our business. In Europe we achieved revenue growth of
62% to £70.4m (2007: £43.4m). In North America, revenue growth
Our focus is on developing new
solutions where appropriate
and providing a responsive and
sustainable service which
exceeds customer expectations,
and helps them to meet their
needs for efﬁciency,
productivity and proﬁtability.
“
”
TIG R&A AW Front 08  27/1/09  14:48  Page 6 In a recent customer survey, those 
who had enjoyed the motor repair 
service were twice as likely to remain 
a long-term customer of AXA, than 
those that organised their own repair .
Markus Troche – Head of Claims, Germany 
AXA Service AG
“
”
Innovation Group continues to help
us save time and money, but not at
the expense of our customers. 
As well as providing an excellent
service, Innovation Group supports
our brand. 
Markus Troche – Head of Claims, Germany 
AXA Service AG 
“
”
7
EXTENSION OF
YOUR BUSINESS 
FOCUSED ON 
YOUR CUSTOMERS
TIG R&A AW Front 08  27/1/09  16:56  Page 7 8
was up 4% to £26.5m (2007: £25.6m) despite contract delays and,
building on the FNS acquisition, the Group has become established
in the BPO market and is achieving signiﬁcant customer wins. Good
performances have also come from Asia Paciﬁc, where our Australian
business performed to expectations with revenue growth of 21% to
£8.8m (2007: £7.3m). As a consequence of regional economic
conditions, which affected consumer driven lines of business, our
South African operations were ﬂat at £34.2m (2007: £34.2m).
Key customer contracts
This year we have won some signiﬁcant contracts and in the UK these
include one in conjunction with IBM for a leading insurer, worth £4.7m
over 2008 and 2009 and a ﬁve-year contract renewal with CIS General
Insurance Limited (CISGIL) estimated to be worth £7m. Our UK
subsidence division was recently awarded Best in Class in the service
provider category at the RSA Supply Chain Collaboration Supplier
Conference in the UK, while our UK motor services division has won
two accident management awards for customer service.
New business developments in the US include a ﬁve-year contract with
Avis Budget Group, a leading provider of vehicle rental services with
operations in more than 70 countries, and an agreement worth $3m
with Western Computer Services (WCSI) to deliver our technology
solutions to Farm Bureaus in the United States. We have also signed
an extended relationship with American Modern Insurance Group
(AMIG).
Partnerships
Innovation Group has been selected as a component services provider
for IBM’s Insurance ISV ecosystem and insurance industry solutions.
The intent is to offer a repeatable solution that is content rich,
delivering high value to customers, while reducing delivery risk and
lowering costs. A collaboration between Innovation Group and IBM to
develop our core capabilities has led to the establishment of our
Innovation Centre in India. We now have access to leading expertise
and the massive worldwide IBM presence which should help us to
expand our global reach. 
Innovation has partnered with Symbility to create a mobile estimating
capability for processing property claims.
One Company
We have completed the transition to a ‘one company’ culture evidenced
by satisfied customers and staff. Project Enterprise, common
forecasting business systems and the flattening of the Group
organisation structure have all been launched in 2008. Going forward,
our focus in 2009 will be predominantly short to medium term,
delivering growth from existing and recently secured contracts,
without making any material acquisitions or incurring further
exceptional restructuring charges. 
Investments
In 2008, we have made strategic cash investments, which we are
conﬁdent will accelerate our growth and proﬁtability into 2009 and
beyond. 
New Products
We have launched two new services in the US, Auto Claims
Management and Property Claims Management, the latter of which
expands our capability with a solution which provides mitigation and
contractor services to the insurance industry, including a fully
integrated, managed network of providers, along with end-to-end
property solutions. 
Additionally during the year we have invested £3.2m (2007: £3.1m)
globally in software research and development, all of which has been
expensed. 
Project Enterprise
The implementation of our own common technology platform to
support our global BPO business using our new Innovation Insurer
software platform is continuing to meet all our expectations in terms
of quality, timescales and budgets. When implemented across the
Group, it will lead to signiﬁcant operational efﬁciencies and ﬂexibility.
This will beneﬁt both our customers, as well as our own operations
and will be the most technically advanced solution in our sector.
Innovation Insurer, a new release of our SOA based system is to be
launched to the market in the Spring of 2009.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT continued
“
We grew our revenue by 27%,
expanded into three new
European geographies, gained
over 70 contracts with new and
existing clients and launched
new auto and property services
in the US. 
”
TIG R&A AW Front 08  27/1/09  14:48  Page 8 9
Acquisitions and integration
We have completed the acquisition and full integration of Nobilas
over a nine-month period, which now provides us with new innovative
BPO capabilities in France, Spain and Benelux. In Germany and the
UK, Nobilas is now operating successfully within the Innovation Group
Motor Services Division.
In the UK, the acquisition and successful integration over a 120-day
period of NSN, the largest centrally controlled network of independent
maintenance and repair garages in the UK, has helped us provide a
compelling proposition to our customers. NSN has in excess of 25
customers including LeasePlan, the world’s largest vehicle
management and leasing provider. We were recently awarded a
platinum score for managing LeasePlan’s network of garages and a
gold score for their Service Booking Line.
In the US we integrated FNS, Sureplan and Nobilas US into one single
BPO business. With these complex steps completed, our US region
is now well established as a single integrated business, fully prepared
for the volume ramp up in 2009 from recently signed contracts.  
Risks and uncertainties
The Board monitors the risk factors faced by the business and takes
appropriate action to mitigate them where possible. As with any
company, risk may affect the Group, its results and the Board’s ability
to deliver strategy. 
Key risks and uncertainties include:
• On a global basis, the Group needs to remain competitive 
• The Group is dependant upon the maintenance of service level
agreements with insurance industry clients
• The Group relies on its relationships with its supplier networks
• The Group’s software solutions must remain technologically
competitive and the associated intellectual property must be
properly protected
• The Group is exposed to certain external risks including exchange
translation risks.
In addition to the above, in common with all companies, the Group is
exposed to uncertainty in the global economy as evidenced by the
recent market turmoil.
Summary 
2008 has been a challenging year for our business as our ambitious
operating model coincided with unprecedented macro economic
turbulence.  
We are disappointed with the reduction in adjusted proﬁt levels, but
are encouraged by the revenue growth which was driven by demand
for our products and services from both new and existing clients.  
We have been integrating strategic acquisitions, adapting the
corporate structure to create a uniﬁed company and investing in new
products, all against the backdrop of this economic turmoil. 
We have re-ﬁnanced our debt, turned around a ﬁrst half operating
cash outﬂow to a full year operating cash inﬂow and signiﬁcantly
cut back on acquisitions. We also carried out a restructuring exercise
at the end of the year to lower the cost run rate.
Our combined software and BPO offering is building strong
momentum both in Europe and the US and we see volumes building
rapidly as we move into 2009. Whilst the outlook for the global
economy remains uncertain, it is clear to us that our insurance
industry customers remain very sharply focused on saving costs and
improving efﬁciencies.
Our opportunity pipeline and recurring revenues remain strong. This
gives the Board confidence in the significant long term growth
prospects for our business.
Hassan Sadiq
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
We have seen signiﬁcant organic
growth and product innovation
and we have also successfully
completed the integration of our
businesses to become a uniﬁed
global player in the insurance
and risk carrier market. 
“
”
TIG R&A AW Front 08  27/1/09  14:48  Page 9 10
Innovation Group has become one of 
RSA’s key outsourcing suppliers in 
the UK, acting as an extension to our 
business. This unique partnership 
has enabled RSA to improve our 
claims process and increase service 
levels to our customers.
Steven Maddock – Technical Claims Director
RSA Insurance Group
“
”
WORKING FOR
RESULTS, TOGETHER
TIG R&A AW Front 08  27/1/09  14:48  Page 10
