 04
The Innovation Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Structuring for growth
Chairman’s statement
In our last Annual Report, I said that our strategy 
was bearing fruit. I am pleased to report that we 
have continued to perform well and have met 
our profit expectations. We have now provided 
our shareholders with five years of revenue 
and adjusted profit growth – a record I am  
very proud of. 
In our last Annual Report, I said that our strategy 
was bearing fruit. I am pleased to report that we 
have continued to perform well and have met 
our profit expectations. We have now provided 
our shareholders with five years of revenue 
and adjusted profit growth – a record I am very 
proud of.
In addition, I am delighted to say that the  
three acquisitions we made during the year 
following our successful fund raising in March 
are integrating well, and last, but not least, we 
have reintroduced a dividend in order to share 
our success with our shareholders.
“ We have been able to produce  
increased revenue and adjusted profit  
by delivering higher value services  
and gaining market share.”
All of this has been achieved in the face of a 
market environment that has evolved differently 
to our expectations. We had thought that as the 
world’s economies emerged out of recession, 
increased economic activity would bring about 
higher claims volumes but this has not yet 
materialised to any great extent.
We have been able to generate increased 
revenue and adjusted profit by delivering more 
and higher value services and gaining market 
share based on our service levels, processes 
and technology together with the impact of  
the three acquisitions completed in the year. 
However, there have been few adverse weather 
events that lead to increased claims in the 
countries and markets which we served over the 
last year, and weather in Europe in particular was 
benign, further depressing claims volumes. We 
have also faced fiscal headwinds as currencies 
weakened against the pound. Despite all this 
our business model continues to prove itself 
in terms of both profit and cash generation. 
The Group is net cash positive which allows us 
to continue to invest in both acquisitions and 
our own research & development. By doing this 
we broaden the solutions we are able to offer  
to our customers. 05
The Innovation Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial 
statements
Strategic 
report
Corporate 
governance
It is important to note that the Group remains 
committed to sustainability. At the recent 
UN Climate Talks, we were a signatory to a 
declaration that committed us to report 
on climate change information on a regular 
common basis.
We continue to invest in our people and of 
special note this year was our Centurion training 
programme that gave one hundred colleagues 
intensive exposure to our improved and 
updated methodologies and frameworks. 
Already we are seeing significantly better 
delivery capability from this.
The Board has also been considering how to 
structure the leadership of the business and to 
deal with succession planning. We believe the 
following changes will significantly aid our 
growth plans in the years ahead and enable  
us to further drive shareholder value. 
Effective from 1 January, Jane Hall will assume 
the commercially and operationally focused  
role of Chief Executive – Business Services.  
In this role Jane will be responsible for the 
performance of all of our international services 
businesses. I am delighted that Jane, as one of 
our most capable and committed executives, 
has elected to take up this position. Lewis Miller, 
currently MD of our North American BPS 
business and prior to that Finance Director of 
that business, will succeed Jane on 1 March 
2015. Jane will perform both roles until that  
time and will then step down from the Board.
Jane will work alongside Paul Nichols, who is 
already Chief Executive – Insurer Business 
(Technology) and has made good progress  
in developing and growing our global software 
business since his appointment in March.  
In the role of Group Chief Executive, Andy 
Roberts will continue to lead the Group until  
31 December 2015 at which time he will take 
 up a part-time role. Both Jane and Paul will 
report to Andy Roberts.
These are exciting times for our Group. At the 
close of a fifth successive year of revenue and 
adjusted profit growth, I would like to extend my 
personal thanks – and those of the Board and 
wider team – to Andy and Jane for their 
exemplary efforts in bringing us to this point  
so that we can embark on the next exciting 
chapter for the company and our shareholders.
Finally, as previously reported, I have indicated 
that I will be stepping down as Chairman. The 
search for my successor is now well underway 
and with these changes agreed I intend to had 
over to my successor at the Company’s AGM.
I would like to thank my fellow Board members, 
our management team, our advisors and our 
staff, who have worked hard to transform 
Innovation Group into an success story.
David Thorpe
Non-Executive Chairman
Innovation Group plc
“ A significant part of our 
value proposition is 
delivering excellent 
customer service at 
every customer 
interaction. 
 
Innovation Group 
continue to partner with 
us to deliver a valued 
service to our customers 
in their time of need; 
when making claims”
Neil Bowman
Managing Director
NLC Insurance
