 The results for the year to 31 December 2006 include 12 months of 
Inspectorate, eight months of ESG and 20 weeks of Eclipse. The comparative 
figures for the 38 week period ended 31 December 2005 include head 
office costs from the date of incorporation in April and the trading results 
of Inspectorate from its acquisition on 13 October 2005. 
Inspectorate 
Inspectorate’s results for 2006 were strong in both sales and margin 
improvement. Compared to the pro forma results for the 12 months 
to 31 December 2005, sales grew 15.3 per cent, or 16.9 per cent at 
comparable exchange rates (note 36). Excluding acquisitions, sales growth 
was 14.3 per cent. In the Oil & Petroleum business, an active trading market 
generated robust revenues in trader, blending and refining activities. In the 
Metals & Minerals business, high gold and other precious metal prices 
increased analysis requirements and encouraged significant mining and 
geochemical exploration. 
The operating margin improved from a pro forma loss (0.6 per cent) 
in 2005 to 4.1 per cent in 2006. This was achieved by reducing costs, 
undertaking a larger proportion of higher margin testing work, a more 
advantageous pricing regime, and the focus of management on financial 
targets in a decentralised structure. Inspectorate is on track to achieve 
the margin target of 8 per cent in the second half of 2007 as outlined 
by Inspicio’s management on its acquisition in October 2005.
Americas
The Americas generated revenue of £62.2m, representing 49.3 per cent of 
Inspectorate’s revenue and growth of 16.2 per cent over pro forma 2005. 
The US Oil & Petroleum division continued to be the largest revenue generator 
in this region. Demand for testing of biodiesel grew during the year to 
support increased biodiesel blending. Although biodiesel is a relatively 
small part of current revenues, Inspectorate has focused on gaining a lead 
position in this area and, as a result, has won several contracts in the Houston, 
New York, T ampa, New Orleans, San Francisco and Seattle markets.
Ultra Low Sulphur legislation enacted in the fourth quarter of the year 
increased the demand for testing of sulphur levels in diesel oil and ten 
laboratories have been equipped with new low level sulphur detectors. 
chief executive’s review
Mark Silver
“ Inspectorate is 
on track to achieve 
the margin target 
of 8 per cent in 
the second half 
of 2007.”
04
Inspicio plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
“ Inspectorate’s results 
for 2006 were strong 
in both sales and 
margin improvement.”
_0_ins_front_ar06.indd   5 24/05/2007   15:09:57 05
Inspicio plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
“ New premises 
in Los Angeles 
doubled capacity 
in the year and 
attracted significant 
testing business.”
“ The US Oil & 
Petroleum division 
continued to be 
the largest revenue 
generator in the 
Americas region.”
New premises in Los Angeles doubled capacity in the year and attracted 
significant testing business as a result. A new division, servicing the liquefied 
natural gas sector, was set up in the year and a new contract with a major 
US pipeline operator was won to perform outsourced testing in the Gulf 
Coast and Eastern Seaboard. 
In South America, revenues increased across a variety of platforms. New 
laboratory facilities were built in Venezuela which enabled the business to 
expand into water testing and, in Argentina, revenues were boosted with 
a contract to test air, noise and water for a major mining consortium. The 
Colombian operation had a successful year following improvements to its 
service capabilities especially in the coal sector. Our minerals laboratory in 
Mexico was also expanded in response to growth in the geochemicals market. 
Asia
Asia generated £11.4m of revenue representing 9.1 per cent of Inspectorate’s 
revenue and growth of 34.2 per cent over pro forma 2005. 
Growth in this region has principally been driven by strong demand in 
China, India and Singapore. Penetration into the Chinese market continues 
to be successful, especially within our coal and coke business and we are 
developing plans to continue expanding Inspectorate’s laboratory capabilities. 
Our laboratory facilities in Singapore have been enhanced and now include 
full biodiesel testing capabilities. Singapore has also benefited from outsourced 
work from the Government of Singapore and services a high proportion 
of its petroleum blending activities. 
The acquisition of Standard & Reference Laboratories in Australia has given 
the Group a stronger position in the Metals & Minerals geochemicals market 
and is being successfully integrated into the Group.
Europe, Middle East and Asia
The combined revenues of the EMEA region were £52.4m representing 
41.5 per cent of Inspectorate’s revenue and growth of 11.6 per cent 
year on year. 
In the UK, trading improved through the year in the Metals & Minerals 
business. Our Witham laboratory is internationally renowned, particularly 
for the testing of precious metals. Commodity trading activity was very 
buoyant in 2006 and the division was successful in winning back business 
previously lost. Sales increased 20.7 per cent. In the Oil & Petroleum 
division, laboratory testing increased after the Buncefield oil depot fire.
The Inspectorate network was expanded by the purchase of an agent in 
Portugal and a majority stake in our Libyan agent and the outright purchase 
of the minority interest in Hungary. Operations commenced in Ghana and 
laboratory capabilities were enhanced in Nigeria, India and Saudi Arabia.
In Eastern Europe, our Russian business recovered from unprecedented 
winter conditions at the beginning of the year to exceed management 
expectations over the whole year. The Baltic operations were restructured 
to encourage opportunities across the region while the Swiss co-ordination 
centre was reduced in size to return more autonomy to individual businesses. 
Inspectorate’s strong position in Oil & Petroleum and fertiliser inspections 
in Eastern Europe was further consolidated during the year.
Metals and Minerals
During the year, the Metals & Minerals division was reorganised into 
a more global structure. The new Reno laboratory facility was completed 
and is now fully functional. New preparatory laboratories were opened 
in Colombia and Mexico to increase efficiency of the flow of samples 
into the Reno and Peru facilities. The acquisition of Standard & Reference 
Laboratories and the continued success of Witham meant that our Metals 
& Minerals business had an encouraging year.
Inspectorate continues to be driven by strong commodity volume movements 
and the globalisation of world trade, as manufacturing and the production 
of goods continue to migrate to developing countries. We see outsourcing 
opportunities within the operation, and the strength of the Inspectorate 
brand and breadth of our network means that we believe we are well 
positioned for the foreseeable future.
Environmental Services Group
Inspicio acquired the Environmental Services Group (“ESG”) on 2 May 2006 
and therefore eight months of its results are included in the 2006 consolidated 
results. Sales for the period were £28.1m and operating profit including 
income from joint ventures was £1.9m, in line with our expectations.
In Soil Mechanics, ESG’s largest business and a recognised market leader 
in UK ground investigation, the market was extremely buoyant, driven by 
_0_ins_front_ar06.indd   6 24/05/2007   15:09:57 06
Inspicio plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
“ Soil Mechanics’ 
market place is 
extremely buoyant, 
driven by infrastructure 
improvements in the 
UK and Ireland, house 
building projects and 
site development in 
preparation for the 
2012 Olympics.”
infrastructure improvements in the UK and Ireland (both road and rail), 
house building projects and the development of the Lower Lea Valley and 
Thames Gateway in preparation for the 2012 Olympics. Soil Mechanics’ 
service capability has been expanded during the year to include materials 
testing (soil, rock and concrete) and by collaboration with research 
facilities, it established innovative in situ and laboratory techniques 
including geothermal and stress testing. In the latter part of the year plans 
were developed for Soil Mechanics to expand its geographical coverage in 
2007, leveraging Inspectorate’s global infrastructure with particular focus 
on the UAE and India.
TES Bretby, ESG’s second largest business, is one of the UK’s biggest 
testing laboratories and has performed encouragingly. The business tests 
a wide variety of products, including coal, minerals, soils and gases. 
It provides an extensive range of environmental monitoring services 
to the waste management sector such as landfill sites and also on-site 
monitoring of personnel and workplace exposure such as vibration, dust, 
noise and toxic substances.
The Group’s Environmental Chemistry testing capability was expanded in 
the second half of 2006 to increase sample volume throughputs to enable 
faster turnaround of analysed information. TES established new coal testing 
facilities at Immingham to service increased imports of coal, and initiatives 
are underway to capitalise on Inspectorate’s overseas network to expand 
TES’s coal testing services into the international market.
Registration of an ESG company in India was initiated at the end of 2006 to 
identify opportunities to provide environmental services to the Indian market. 
The establishment of a joint Inspectorate/ESG water hygiene service for the 
UAE was formulated in the second half of 2006 for implementation in 2007.
The loss making Global food testing division within ESG was closed during 
the second half of the year. Global’s losses included in the results for the 
year were approximately £0.5m.
Eclipse
Eclipse Scientific Group was acquired on 11 August 2006 and its performance 
from acquisition to 31 December 2006 has generated sales of £7.7m and 
operating profit of £1.7m, in line with management expectations.
chief executive’s review
continued
“ Opportunities have 
been identified to 
provide environmental 
services to the 
Indian market.”
_0_ins_front_ar06.indd   7 24/05/2007   15:10:00 07
Inspicio plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Eclipse is the UK’s leading food testing business and has grown through 
a combination of organic growth and acquisitions. In addition to food 
testing, Eclipse also provides water and pharmaceutical testing services 
and has a laboratory supply company which has given the Group stronger 
purchasing power. 
The market in which Eclipse operates has seen good growth during the year 
and sample volumes have risen by around 25 per cent in 2006. Substantial 
investment is taking place in customer relationship management software 
to focus on improving the delivery of services to clients.
Eclipse has made two small acquisitions in the period since acquisition. 
The total consideration for these acquisitions was £0.4m. Promar was 
acquired in October 2006 and offers an opportunity to build on our strong 
relationships in the dairy sector, where test volumes have more than doubled 
in the year. Envirolab was purchased in December 2006 and has increased 
the national coverage the Group enjoys in Ireland. 
The Voelcker business within Eclipse was merged with CLA, our ESG 
environment consultancy, in the latter part of 2006, to provide integrated 
geotechnical and environmental consultancy services associated with 
assessment, utilisation and remediation of land.
The food testing market continues to be driven by increased regulation 
and food movements, boosted by one-off food scares. The trend to outsource 
food testing by the major food producers also represents an opportunity 
to increase sales and use laboratory assets more efficiently. Eclipse currently 
operates one outsourced laboratory and other opportunities to expand 
the Group’s capabilities in this area are being actively pursued. 
We are formulating plans to internationalise the Eclipse business either 
organically or by focused acquisition and intend to effect such plans in 2007.
Strategy 
The Board continues to believe that the fragmented inspection and testing 
market provides opportunities to consolidate inspection and testing businesses 
through acquisition and that, with the development of a global infrastructure, 
the Group can create value by exploiting these acquisition opportunities, 
integrating acquired businesses and implementing cost savings. 
Aside from these acquisition opportunities, there are a number of key 
underlying factors which the Directors believe will provide continued 
growth in the inspection and testing markets. These factors include 
regulatory and legislative changes driving the need for new and tougher 
testing regimes; buyers and sellers of goods and services seeking 
independent third party inspection; multi-national businesses requiring 
consistent inspection and testing services; commercialisation of 
performance conformity services; and globalisation of supply chains.
The Directors also believe that market factors, such as anticipated global trade 
and GDP growth, the increased propensity of businesses to outsource and 
significant barriers to entry, (such as complex regulation, the requirements 
of an international network and a established reputation) will provide 
opportunities for revenue growth amongst the major international providers 
of inspection and testing services.
The Board believes that the Company is successfully delivering on its strategy 
and will continue to pursue acquisition opportunities as they arise.
Outlook
We are very pleased with the turnaround of Inspectorate and we remain 
on track to achieve the margin target of 8 per cent in the second half of 
2007, as anticipated at the time of the acquisition. 
We will continue to integrate the acquired businesses and leverage operational 
synergies and cross-selling opportunities. We will also continue to assess 
further acquisition opportunities as they arise, according to our stated strategy.
The drivers of our business remain strong. Trading in the early months of 
2007 has continued as expected. Despite some weakness of the US Dollar, 
we remain confident that Inspicio will continue to perform in line with 
management expectations in 2007.
I would like to thank the Board, management team and all of the employees 
for their outstanding contributions to a very successful year.
Mark Silver
Chief Executive 
22 May 2007
“ Eclipse is the UK’s 
leading food testing 
business and has 
grown through 
a combination 
of organic growth 
and acquisitions.”
“ The food testing 
market continues 
to be driven by 
increased regulation 
and food movements, 
boosted by one-off 
food scares.”
_0_ins_front_ar06.indd   8 24/05/2007   15:10:01
