 	  Insp Ired 	 Gam In G	G roup 	p LC	 annua L	 report 	 and 	 a CCounts 	 2006 	 	 Insp Ired 	 Gam In G	G roup 	p LC	 annua L	 report 	 and 	 a CCounts 	 2006	  Chairman’s 
Statement
I am pleased to report on the Group’s maiden financial results as an AIM 
listed company covering the period from incorporation on 3 May 2006 to 
30 September 2006. This represents a 21 week Statutory Period and, following 
the acquisition of Ever 2533 Limited and Inspired Broadcast Networks 
Limited on 2 June 2006, a 17 week trading period. The statutory results of 
Inspired Gaming Group plc are discussed in the Business and Financial Review 
later in this report. This Annual Report also focuses on the performance of the 
underlying group for the 53 weeks ended 30 September 2006.
The underlying results for the 53 week period are broadly in line with our 
expectations and, notwithstanding tough trading conditions during the summer 
heatwave in the UK, we delivered strong SBG sales growth both in the UK and 
internationally. 
This creditable performance has been underpinned by the significant progress the 
Group has made, both in the financial year and subsequent to it, in expanding its 
leading position in Server Based Gaming. The Group also generated cash ahead 
of expectations.
The performance of the Group was:
 
 a udited Unaudited  Unaudited  Annual 
 statutory  proforma  proforma change +/- 
 2	weeks	ended	 53 weeks ended  52 weeks ended 
  0	s ept	2006  30 Sept 2006  24 Sept 2005  
 £’m £’m £’m 
Group turnover  8.0m 171.1m 162.7m  +5.2%
Group EBITdA
1
 (before share  
based payment charge and  
exceptional items)  0.0m 21.0m 19.2m +9.4%
Group EBITA
2
 (before share  
based payment charge and  
exceptional items) 8.6m 17.0m 16.8m +1.2%
1
  ‘EBITdA’ represents Earnings Before Interest, Taxation, non-machine depreciation and Amortisation. EDITdA is, in  
the opinion of the Directors, the most appropriate measure of cash profits after recurring investment in machines.
2
  ‘EBITA’ represents Earnings Before Interest, Taxation and Amortisation.
	s trategy
The Group’s strategy remains to drive earnings growth and maximise shareholder returns through:
the transition of the UK machine base from analogue gaming machines to higher margin 
Server Based terminals and segments;
using Server Based Gaming to improve our operational efficiency; and
the development and sale of our Server Based software platforms and CGI/digital content 
internationally.
The Group has continued to deliver on its strategic goals.
In the Statutory Period, the Group:
contracted with Tabcorp for the deployment of Server Based entertainment product in 
Australia under the brand name ‘Barry’;
opened its new global SBG support facility in Bangor, North Wales; and
completed the acquisition of Red Vision, enabling the Group to extend the range of its 
virtual sports products into other broadcast media.
•
•
•
•
•
• 	  Insp Ired 	 Gam In G	G roup 	p LC	 annua L	 report 	 and 	 a CCounts 	 2006 	 	 Insp Ired 	 Gam In G	G roup 	p LC	 annua L	 report 	 and 	 a CCounts 	 2006	  Since the end of the Statutory Period, the 
Group:
announced that The Coca-Cola Company 
has entered into an exclusive trial of SBG 
digital vending machines;
renewed its service contract with Gala 
Coral Group, increasing its volume to 
100% of the bingo and casino estate and 
extending tenure from three to five years;
exhibited for the first time at the G2E 
gaming show in Las Vegas; and
launched its SBG Video AWP products for 
the UK market. 
t rading	and	m arkets
In the UK, the Group continues to own and 
operate the largest estate of Server Based 
machines. 
As identified in the Group’s trading update 
on 1 November 2006, trading conditions, 
particularly in our pub and leisure sectors, 
were challenging due to the unprecedented 
hot weather experienced across the UK 
during the summer months. However, this 
effect was mitigated, in part, by strong SBG 
performance in the UK gaming and 
international markets.
As stated previously, the Group has 
continued to win business with Gala Coral 
Group, Paddy Power and the continuing 
rollout of our market leading SBG 
entertainment product into the pubs sector.
Internationally, we continue to make good 
progress. In Italy, there are now some 14,300 
machines running on our software on the 
Gmatica network. The recent contract with 
Tabcorp is now in rollout phase and we are 
well positioned with a number of new 
markets including, amongst others, Southern 
and Eastern Europe, Latin America, Benelux 
and Germany.
The Group will continue to seek organic 
growth, both in the UK and overseas. In 
addition, the Directors continue to review a 
variety of other opportunities available to the 
Group including acquisitions.
r egulatory	d evelopments
On 6 October 2006, the Department for 
Culture Media and Sport (DCMS) announced 
an increase in stakes and prizes for Category 
C AWP machines from 30p and £25 to 50p 
and £35 respectively. This was effective from 
27 October 2006. Historically, stakes and 
prizes have been increased every three years 
(‘The Triennial Review’) and the industry 
•
•
•
•
Entertainment 
Skill With Prize
Inspired Gaming Group plc has one of the 
world’s largest networks of skill with prizes 
terminals, spanning multiple countries and 
continents. The terminals allow the  
end user to play more than 30 exciting  
and challenging games, competitions  
and tournaments.
Benefits
New content downloaded instantly to the 
customer’s venue every six weeks 
Big cash prize tournaments with real-time 
updated national leader boards 
Unique game experiences, such as  
multi-player head-to-head games
Features	 Central menu control to make real-time 
changes to terminal layout
On-terminal tools to help venue managers 
increase revenues 
Fault management via remote diagnostics 
tools
•
•
•
•
•
•
secure	 with	e xciting	 Content 	 6 Insp Ired 	 Gam In G	G roup 	p LC	 annua L	 report 	 and 	 a CCounts 	 2006 	 	 Insp Ired 	 Gam In G	G roup 	p LC	 annua L	 report 	 and 	 a CCounts 	 2006	  r egulatory	d evelopments	 continued
normally witnesses improved revenues on 
each occasion. However, at the last review, no 
increase was implemented due to the passage 
of the 2005 Gambling Act. The DCMS also 
confirmed that the next review would take 
place in 2009. This is positive news for the 
Group and the wider industry as a whole as  
it should remove further downward pressure 
on AWP machine rents and provide some 
mitigation to the smoking ban which comes 
into effect in England on 1 July 2007.
There has been much comment on the 
impact the smoking ban may have on the 
gaming machines industry in England. The 
experience in many other countries such as 
Italy and Australia, suggests that incomes fall 
for a period of time before reverting to 
previous levels. Our own experience in Italy, 
where the Group monitors AWP machine 
incomes operating on its platform, confirms 
this trend. In Scotland, where the Group 
operates an estate of approximately 1,500 
machines, AWP rents and volumes have both 
remained stable. The Group has seen a 
decline in its shared income products but the 
overall fall in incomes has been c.5%, in line 
with industry expectations. However, the 
Directors recognise that these results may 
not reflect the full impact of the ban and will 
monitor the situation closely. We will also 
continue to seek operating efficiencies to 
absorb any impact.
 
The introduction of the Gaming Act 2005 
in September 2007 provides a number of 
opportunities for the Group. The most 
significant will be the ability for the Group to 
share in AWP machine revenues for the first 
Chairman’s 
Statement
continued
time. This is particularly apposite given the 
recent launch of the Group’s SBG Category 
C AWP machine. We are optimistic that 
this product will follow the trend of the 
Group’s previous SBG machine releases 
which have all delivered significant income 
uplifts compared to their traditional analogue 
counterparts. The new Gaming Act will 
therefore enable the Group to participate in 
these increased incomes. The Group also 
expects to benefit from the regulated growth 
in the casino estate in the UK, through its 
suite of SBG casino product and machine 
services and supply.
Finally, the Group did not and does not have 
any exposure to the US online gaming market 
and our trading was thus entirely unaffected 
by the legislation that affected that sector in 
October 2006.
people
Our employees continue to deliver 
outstanding loyalty, commitment, hard work 
and talent. I would like to thank them all for 
the superb way in which they have performed 
throughout a period of enormous change.
Board
Julian Paul and David Mace joined the Board 
as Non-Executive Directors when the Group 
was admitted to AIM. I am extremely grateful 
for their assistance and wise counsel during 
the IPO process. Subsequently, Christopher 
Mills joined the Board on 29 September 2006 
as a Non-Executive Director. Christopher 
brings a wealth of experience of the public 
markets and adds significant value to the 
Board’s deliberations. On behalf of all of the  	 6 Insp Ired 	 Gam In G	G roup 	p LC	 annua L	 report 	 and 	 a CCounts 	 2006 	 	 Insp Ired 	 Gam In G	G roup 	p LC	 annua L	 report 	 and 	 a CCounts 	 2006	  Directors, I welcome him to the Board. David 
Page, Chief Financial Officer, retires from the 
Board today and will leave the Company at 
the end of September 2007. David has served 
the group for 24 years and has made a 
significant contribution to its development. 
On behalf of all of our Directors I wish him 
well for a long and happy retirement. I am 
pleased to announce the appointment of 
Simon Kerry as Group Finance Director 
reporting to the Board. Simon joined the 
group in 1990 and has subsequently held a 
number of senior accounting positions, most 
recently UK Finance Director. Simon played a 
key role during the Group’s admission to AIM 
and has an extensive knowledge of the 
Group and the industry as a whole.
summary	and	Current	t rading
The 2006 result is broadly in line with market 
expectations. The Directors are pleased with 
the considerable progress made since 
admission to AIM. We have achieved several 
major strategic milestones including the Gala 
Coral Group contract extension, SBG deals 
with Tabcorp and The Coca-Cola Company, 
and the launch of our new SBG video AWP 
products. Whilst the Group faces well 
understood challenges such as the ban on 
smoking in public places and the pace of SBG 
rollout, the considerable progress made since 
admission and the strong year on year SBG 
revenue growth leaves the Group set fair  
for 2007.
The new financial year has started strongly, 
especially in SBG segments where machine 
incomes and volumes are well ahead year  
on year, in line with our expectations. It is 
expected that unaudited first quarter EBITdA 
(before share based payment charge) will 
be up between 35–40% ahead of the 
corresponding period last year. While this is 
extremely encouraging the Board is mindful 
that the financial performance of the Group 
is, as ever, weighted towards the second half 
of the financial year.
r ussell	 Hoyle
Chairman
22 January 2007
Inspired Gaming Group plc is a leading 
supplier of virtual events to the betting 
community, with our unique and innovative 
Virtual Sports platform. Around 40 virtual 
events are broadcast every day in UK  
betting shops.
The Virtual Sports platform is available for  
all popular betting events, including horse 
racing, football, dog racing and speedway, 
across a wide range of broadcast, internet, 
terminals and other distribution channels. 
Through Red Vision, our BAFTA award-
winning computer graphics interface 
production company, the Group is able  
to deliver an exciting, realistic gaming 
experience with unparalleled movie  
quality graphics.
Benefits
Wide variety of betting events
High returns
Full margin control
Independent of real-world events 
Allows customer control
Features
Revolutionary film and television 
originated computer graphics 
Randomised race events with infinite race 
scenarios
Simple back-end technology for use by 
administrators
Automated print-out of simplified race 
content for commentators
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Compelling	 Computer	 Generated	 Imagery
Gaming  
Virtual Events
