 	 8 Insp Ired 	 Gam In G	G roup 	p LC	 annua L	 report 	 and 	 a CCounts 	 2006 	 	 Insp Ired 	 Gam In G	G roup 	p LC	 annua L	 report 	 and 	 a CCounts 	 2006	  Group
Co-Chief 
Executives’ 
Statement
o verview
2006 was an eventful year for the group. The 
Company’s admission to AIM in June following 
many years of private equity ownership led to 
a significantly reduced debt level and a more 
appropriate capital structure for a business 
with global growth ambitions. The group has 
continued to consolidate its strong leadership 
in the SBG market by increasing the number of 
SBG terminals within its own machine estate 
and by signing new agreements with third 
parties who will deploy the group’s SBG 
software. In the UK, the group renewed and 
extended a number of major contracts to 
supply SBG and traditional gaming machines to 
key customers. Internationally, the group 
continued to rollout SBG terminals and signed 
new strategic SBG agreements in key markets. 
In June, Inspired Broadcast Networks Limited 
acquired Red Vision, its partner in virtual-
sports content creation, bringing in-house the 
expertise that has created the UK’s leading 
supplier to this exciting segment of the 
betting market. 
The group also delivered financial results that 
were broadly in line with market expectations 
with proforma EBITdA up 9.4% and proforma 
EBITA up 1.2% (both before share based 
payment charge and exceptional items).
u K	m achine	m anagement	–	 	 sBG	and	t raditional
Volumes	 In 2006, the group operated an estate of 
91,322 (2005: 89,941) (average during year) 
gaming and entertainment machines which 
it supplied to a range of retailers ranging from 
casinos, licensed betting offices, bingo halls, 
pubs, motorway service stations and holiday 
parks in the UK in return for a rent or a share 
of revenues. In the majority of cases, the group 
provides the financial capital for the machines 
and a fully managed service including yield 
management, installation, repairs and 
collections provided by over 1,400 staff. 
t urnover	 The increased penetration of SBG terminals 
within the UK estate is a core value driver. 
Revenues from the group’s SBG machines 
increased by 23% in the year to £48.3m (2005: 
£39.1m) and accounted for 30% of total 
machine management revenues (2005: 26%). 
At 30 September 2006, the number of SBG 
machines increased to 18,700 (2005: 16,600) 
accounting for 21% of the total estate (2005: 
18%) driven by the completion of the rollout 
at William Hill of our FOBTs and the ongoing 
rollout of our entertainment and music 
variants through the pub and leisure channels.
Revenues from machine management overall, 
SBG and analogue, increased by 5% to £160.7m 
(2005: £152.8m) which compared favourably to 
the 2% increase in the number of average 
machines. The improvement in income per 
machine was largely driven by an increase in the 
average number of SBG machines owned and 
operated in the year to 17,987 (2005: 13,746) 
which deliver higher incomes than the Group’s 
traditional analogue machines. However, 
machine management revenues in the pub and 
leisure sectors were dampened by the effects of 
the hot summer. We estimate that the extreme 
weather conditions had an adverse impact of 
approximately £1.6m on the group’s operating 
The Group’s maiden financial results cover the trading period from 2 June 2006 
to 30 September 2006, following the incorporation of the Company on 3 May 
2006. The statutory results for this short period are covered in the Business and 
Financial Review. In this section, we focus on the performance of the underlying 
group for the 53 weeks ended 30 September 2006. 
“  The group continued to rollout SBG terminals and signed 
new strategic SBG agreements in key markets. In June, Inspired 
Broadcast Networks Limited acquired Red Vision, its partner in 
virtual-sports content creation, bringing in-house the expertise 
that has created the UK’s leading supplier to this exciting segment 
of the betting market.”
£57 .1 m
33%
%	sales	 from	sBG
(unaudited	 proforma		 weeks	 	 ended	0	september	 2006)
sales	 from	sBG
(unaudited	 proforma		 weeks	 ended	0	september	 2006) 	 8 Insp Ired 	 Gam In G	G roup 	p LC	 annua L	 report 	 and 	 a CCounts 	 2006 	 	 Insp Ired 	 Gam In G	G roup 	p LC	 annua L	 report 	 and 	 a CCounts 	 2006	  profit in the year, although much of this was 
mitigated. Since the summer months incomes in 
pubs and leisure have recovered strongly and 
are now tracking in line with our expectations. 
The focus on SBG has led to a corresponding 
decrease in the group’s ownership and 
operation of analogue machines which at  
30 September 2006 was 69,171 (of which 8,689 
were serviced but not owned) (2005: 74,713, of 
which 7,587 service-only). Machine management 
revenues from the group’s traditional analogue 
machines declined by 1% in the year to £112.4m 
(2005: £113.7m) despite a 4% decline in average 
machines highlighting an improvement in mix 
away from the pub market, to more profitable 
segments. The Directors will continue to 
evaluate opportunities to withdraw from 
unattractive analogue machine contracts as 
they come up for renewal. 
Costs	 SBG machines typically deliver higher revenues 
to both customers and the group and are 
more economic to operate than their 
traditional counterparts through a combination 
of higher income generation (as a result of an 
improved customer experience) and lower 
operating costs. Costs are typically lower for a 
variety of reasons. 
With SBG:
machine content is changed remotely by 
uploading from a central server. With 
analogue machines, content can only be 
changed by physically replacing the 
machine;
repairs can often be conducted remotely 
‘over the wire’, obviating the need for 
expensive field staff visits; and 
incomes are also monitored remotely 
unlike traditional machines where the 
income data has to be manually retrieved. 
This allows the group to outsource, in 
some instances, the process of cash 
collection to its retailer partners. These 
benefits increase with scale. 
During the year the Group rationalised its depot 
structure down to 18 due to the process of the 
conversion to SBG, providing the benefit of 
lower operating costs for the future.
profit	 Overall, UK machine management EBITdA 
(before share based payment charge and 
exceptional items) increased by 7% to £22.6m 
(2005: £21.2m). 
•
•
•
Gaming  
Fixed Odds Betting T erminal
r eal-t ime	r eporting
Benefits
Exceptional uptime
Regular content updates downloaded 
remotely
Terminals connected via high-speed  
ADSL network, allowing real-time,  
remote monitoring 
Real-time reporting for up-to-the-minute 
performance data
Features
Great content, managed at terminal level
Leading-edge graphics and touch screen 
technology 
Back office cashier terminal for payments 
and credit management
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Inspired Gaming Group plc provides the 
leading Open Server Based Gaming (Open 
SBG™) platform for Video Lottery and Fixed 
Odds Betting Terminals. Currently deployed 
on more than 8,800 terminals, the Open 
SBG™ platform allows content and currency, 
as well as gaming and betting rules, to be 
modified in each market to comply with local 
needs and legislative requirements. Content 
includes Roulette, Virtual Sports and numbers 
games, some of which offer bonus features.
“ WehavechosenInspiredasourstrategic partnerforFixedOddsBettingTerminals  and2006sawtheextremelysuccessful replacementofourestatewiththeirbest  inbreedRainmakerterminal.”
Ian Chuter
Operations Director (Slots),
William Hill Organization 	  0 Insp Ired 	 Gam In G	G roup 	p LC	 annua L	 report 	 and 	 a CCounts 	 2006 	 	 Insp Ired 	 Gam In G	G roup 	p LC	 annua L	 report 	 and 	 a CCounts 	 2006	  Group
Co-Chief 
Executives’ 
Statement
continued
sBG	s oftware	and	s ervices	( sBGss )
SBGSS made excellent progress during the 
year with sales increasing by 69% to £8.8m 
(2005: £5.2m). This includes a contribution  
of £1.3m from Red Vision. SBGSS activities 
comprise of the sale to third parties, both  
in the UK and overseas, of the Group’s SBG 
software platform, games and other content 
including Red Vision’s computer generated 
imagery (CGI), virtual sports and SBG 
hardware. Revenue streams include SBG 
licence fees and associated recurring support 
fees, content royalties, margins on hardware 
sales and consulting fees. SBGSS customers 
include leading machine operators and 
retailers such as Gala Coral Group, Europe’s 
largest gambling operator, and Tabcorp, 
Australasia’s premier gambling and 
entertainment group. These customers have 
chosen the Group as their technology partner 
to assist them in harnessing SBG to transform 
the profitability of their own machine estates. 
These customers typically provide the financial 
capital for the SBG machines. Consequently, 
SBGSS contracts produce higher revenues and 
returns on investment than those in machine 
management. The SBGSS business model 
forms the basis of the Group’s international 
expansion strategy and the Group now has 
machines running on its technology in seven 
countries outside the UK.
SBGSS revenue growth during the year has 
been driven by contracts with new name 
customers as well as by sales to existing 
customers. Existing SBGSS customers include 
Gala Coral Group, which is using the Group’s 
SBG platform and games in both its bingo and 
casino divisions and Gmatica, a leading Italian 
gaming machine concessionary in which the 
Group has an investment. The number of 
Italian AWP machines connected to the 
group’s SBG platform grew by over 110% 
during the year to reach 14,300 (2005: 6,800). 
Note, these are not owned or operated by the 
Group. The most significant new-name gaming 
customer win during the year was Tabcorp, 
which entered into a five year exclusive 
strategic partnership to deploy the Group’s 
platform in its gaming division.
The group also made progress in broadening 
the application of its technology to segments 
other than gaming. Technical trials continued 
in Ireland for digital vending equipment with 
The Coca-Cola Company during the year. 
The success of these resulted in an extended 
commercial trial, announced after the year 
end, to deploy digital vending machines in the 
USA, Germany and Ireland. The Group is 
working with The Coca-Cola Company on 
an exclusive basis and the opportunity is, in 
our opinion, one of the most significant facing 
the Group.
Red Vision made good progress during the 
year securing virtual sports content revenues 
from a range of customers including William 
Hill and Ladbrokes. Since the year end, its 
product has also launched on PartyGaming’s 
PartyCasino.com website. 
During the year, the group continued to invest 
in its SBGSS technology and operating 
infrastructure, which included the creation  
of its SBG Global Support Service centre in 
North Wales which remotely monitors and 
manages SBG terminals connected to our 
platform worldwide (including those owned  
by third parties) on a 24/7 basis. Despite this 
investment, the strong growth in sales resulted 
“ SBGSS revenue growth during the year has been driven by 
contracts with new name customers as well as by sales to  
existing customers.”
“ The group also made progress in broadening the application  
of its technology to segments other than gaming.” 	  0 Insp Ired 	 Gam In G	G roup 	p LC	 annua L	 report 	 and 	 a CCounts 	 2006 	 	 Insp Ired 	 Gam In G	G roup 	p LC	 annua L	 report 	 and 	 a CCounts 	 2006	  in a reduced EBITdA loss for SBGSS of £1.2m 
(2005: £1.5m loss). Since its acquisition, Red 
Vision has contributed EBITdA profit of £0.4m. 
o rganisational	r estructuring
Prior to IPO, SBG activities were not fully 
integrated because the majority of the software 
and services capability, including ownership of 
the SBG technology platform, was provided by 
Inspired Broadcast Networks which was only 
65% owned on a fully diluted basis by the 
former parent company, Ever 2533 Limited.  
The IPO resulted in the acquisition of the IBN 
minority interest. This has allowed the Group 
to be fundamentally restructured so that it is 
now completely focused on harnessing its SBG 
expertise across all functions from sales to 
operations and research and development. 
The restructuring rationalises our field and 
central support functions including the 
reduction in the number of operating depots 
(six closed since the IPO). The cost of this 
fundamental restructuring, which will be 
completed during 2007 is £2.1m and has been 
treated as an exceptional charge to the profit 
and loss account.
o utlook	for	the	Forthcoming 	 Financial	Year
Trading in the current financial year has started 
well. SBG machine management incomes in 
LBOs and pubs are performing particularly 
strongly and SBGSS has a strong pipeline of 
opportunities both in the UK and overseas. 
Since the year end, the Group has announced 
that it has renewed its service contract with 
Gala Coral Group for a further five years and 
extended the contract to cover the whole 
Gala casino and bingo estate. We are 
continuing to roll new FOBTs and SBG skill 
with prize into new UK customers. The Group 
also launched its SBG AWP on 28 November 
2006 to customers and the trade press and 
the reaction has been favourable. Traditional 
analogue AWPs account for approximately 
40% of the Group’s machine estate, a 
significant proportion of which have a two 
year useful economic life compared to five 
years for the SBG variant which will improve 
the economics of operating this product.
In addition to organic growth the Directors 
continue to review opportunities for potential 
acquisitions. The Group remains cash 
generative and we are confident of making 
significant strategic and financial progress 
during the coming year.
Luke	a lvarez	 &	norman 	 Crowley
Group Co-Chief Executives 
22 January 2007
Graphically	r ich	 Content
The Player is the revolutionary broadband 
enabled video AWP. The graphically rich 
content and variety of stakes and prizes 
provide a compelling gaming experience 
appealing to customer’s current, new and 
lapsed players.  
 
Benefits
Optimised fresh content without 
continually removing and installing cabinets 
Proven engineering principles and familiar 
player ergonomics 
A multi-game product which will increase 
site life and prolong sales 
Networked, broadband terminals allowing 
remote monitoring, minimising fault rates 
and engineer callouts 
 Features
A more user friendly platform than 
traditional reel based games 
Touch screen technology allows easy 
playability and browsing 
Vast range of game styles with graphically 
rich content 
Configurable menus to allow single or 
multi-game offer across venues 
More new games, more often
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Gaming 
 Video Amusement With Prize
