 8
Group Overview
We are very pleased with the progress 
of the Group. The Group reported an 
operating profit of £11.4m after deductions 
for share-based payments (£5.0m), 
goodwill (£4.8m) (both non-cash items) 
and exceptional items (£0.9m). Profit 
before tax on the same basis is £3.8m and 
on an underlying basis is £15.4m (stated 
before amortisation, exceptional items, 
share-based payment and deferred 
consideration discount unwind within 
Interest Payable). 
The shift in the sales mix towards SBG has 
led to a significant improvement in margins 
resulting in strong EBITdA
1
 and EBITA
2
 
growth. EBITdA
1
 of £26.8m and EBITA
2
 of 
£22.1m, represent year-on-year increases 
of 28%
3
 and 30%
3
 respectively. The Group 
has increased its focus on higher quality 
SBG activities whilst selectively withdrawing 
from lower margin analogue segments.  
As expected, this resulted in turnover 
at £166.3m being in line with the 
corresponding period last year after 
adjusting for turnover from analogue 
manufacturing which was discontinued in 
the last financial year and for the fact that 
last financial year represented a 53 week 
period. Overall revenues from the Group’s 
SBG activities increased 24% to £70.6m 
and now account for 42% of Group 
turnover compared to 33% last year. 
The underlying earnings per share was 
15.4p and the basic earnings per share  
was 0.4p. 
The Directors are comfortable with the 
strength of the balance sheet as net debt 
at 29 September 2007 reduced to £59.2m 
from £72.2m at the end of the previous 
financial year. Within this, the Group had 
cash on balance sheet of £33.1m compared 
to £15.2m last year benefiting from the 
investment in the Group’s equity by FL 
Group in March. 
UK 
Turnover in our UK division was £163.1m 
resulting in an operating profit before 
taxation, goodwill amortisation and 
exceptional costs of £21.9m. The 
performance of the UK division 
is reviewed in detail below.
UK Machine Management – 
SBG and Traditional
The Group continues to focus on 
enhancing the overall quality of the estate 
and withdraw selectively from lower quality 
analogue machine contracts (which include 
non-core activities such as the operation 
of payphones). This has resulted, as 
anticipated, in a decline in total machine 
volumes during the period, accompanied 
by an increase in SBG machine volumes. 
The Group operated an estate of 83,477 
machines in the year (average throughout 
year, 2006: 91,322) consisting of gaming and 
entertainment machines which it supplied 
to a range of retailers including casinos, 
licensed betting offices, bingo halls, pubs, 
motorway service stations and holiday 
parks in the UK in return for a rent or a 
share of revenues. In the majority of cases, 
the Group provides the financial capital for 
the machines and a fully managed service 
including yield management, installation, 
repairs and collections provided by over 
1,200 operational staff.
Revenues from the Group’s owned SBG 
machines increased by 12% in the year to 
£54.0m (2006: £48.3m) driven by both 
increased yields and volumes. Income per 
SBG machine decreased by 3% reflecting  
a change in mix towards lower revenue but 
higher gross profit generating FOBTs and 
a move away from Skill With Prize (SWP) 
terminals. Average FOBT unit income 
increased by 8.9% reflecting the continued 
improvements in product quality, content 
and yield management. The average 
number of SBG machines increased by 15% 
Group Co-Chief  
Executives’ Statement
 £1 6.6m
turnover from Server Based Gaming Software 
and Services representing an increase of 88%
 £70.6m
turnover from Group Server Based Gaming 
representing  2% of total Group turnover
[ STYLE SHEETS FROM THIS FILE ARE NOT INTERCHANGEABLE WITH THE OTHER ARTWORK FILES FOR THIS JOB ] ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 INSPIRED GAMING GROUP PLC
9
Gaming 
Fixed Odds Betting Terminal
Inspired Gaming Group plc 
provides the leading Open Server 
Based Gaming (Open SBG™) 
platform for Video Lottery and 
Fixed Odds Betting Terminals. 
Currently deployed on more 
than  ,500 terminals, the Open 
SBG™ platform allows content 
and currency, as well as gaming 
and betting rules, to be modified 
in each market to comply with 
local needs and legislative 
requirements. Content includes 
Roulette, Virtual Sports and 
numbers games, some of which 
offer bonus features.
“ Early in 2007 we selected Inspired as 
our sole partner for Fixed Odds Betting 
Terminals. Following the replacement 
of our entire estate with their industry 
leading Rainmaker terminal they successfully 
implemented the requirements of the new 
Gambling Act on September 1st. 
This involved the introduction of best in 
breed new B2 and B3 gaming content 
which has, along with excellent levels 
of service, continued to drive machine 
incomes to record breaking levels across 
the BetFred estate.”
 
John Haddock
Managing Director, Betfred
Benefits
Exceptional uptime
Regular content updates downloaded 
remotely
Terminals connected via high-speed 
ADSL network, allowing real-time, 
remote monitoring 
Real-time reporting for up-to-the-minute 
performance data
Features
Great content, managed at terminal level
Leading-edge graphics and touch screen 
technology 
Back office cashier terminal for payments 
and credit management
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
to 20,771 during the year (2006: 17,987). 
At 29 September 2007, the Group 
operated 22,965 SBG machines  
(2006: 18,745) accounting for 31% of the 
total owned estate (2006: 24%). Overall, 
SBG machine revenues accounted for 36% 
of total Machine Management revenues 
(2006: 30%). We expect the percentage  
to increase in the financial year due to the 
current roll-out of SBG AWP terminals 
to the pub estate.
At 29 September 2007, the Group 
operated 56,915 analogue machines (of 
which 5,624 were serviced but not owned), 
a year-on-year reduction, as planned, of 
17.7% (2006: 69,171, 8,689 service-only). 
Consequently, total revenues from 
analogue machines in the year declined 
by 15% to £95.7m (2006: £112.4m).  
This intended withdrawal of low  
margin analogue machines as well as the 
increase in SBG machines has led to an 
improvement in the overall gross profit 
from Machine Management from 28% to 
34%. While total revenues from Machine 
Management declined by 7% to £149.7m 
(2006: £160.7m), which reflects a 2% 
increase in the overall income per machine 
offset by a 9% decline in average machine 
numbers, the improvement in mix has 
led to Machine Management gross profit 
increasing £5.5m to £50.3m.
UK SBGSS
SBGSS activities comprise the sale to third 
parties of the Group’s SBG software 
platform, games and other content 
(including virtual sports) and SBG 
hardware. Revenue streams include 
SBG licence fees and associated recurring 
support fees, content royalties, margins 
on hardware sales and consulting fees.
UK SBGSS sales in the period were £13.5m. 
We enjoyed many successes during the 
year. Gala continued the roll-out of our 
SBG casino table gaming terminal and we 
also sold the product to Stanley Casinos. 
Gala Coral purchased licences to enable 
the commencement of roll-out of the SBG 
Bingo Wizard product in calendar year 
2008. Ladbrokes have also chosen to use 
the Group’s technology platform on 1,500 
of its FOBTs in the UK. In addition, we 
sold our solutions, to amongst others, SIS, 
Amalgamated Racing, EUK Digital and 
Clear Channel Outdoor, the world’s largest 
outdoor advertising company who will be 
using the Group’s content delivery platform 
[ STYLE SHEETS FROM THIS FILE ARE NOT INTERCHANGEABLE WITH THE OTHER ARTWORK FILES FOR THIS JOB ]  0
to broadcast advertising messages to 
venues in the leisure sector. Red Vision, the 
developer of leading edge gaming content 
acquired in June 2006, has had a very 
successful year increasing its virtual content 
revenues by 76% on a like-for-like basis. Its 
virtual sports content is now broadcast on 
over 10,500 screens worldwide.
International
The SBGSS business model forms the basis 
of the Group’s international expansion 
strategy and demand for the Group’s  
SBG products and virtual sports content 
throughout the world has been encouraging. 
During the year a specialist international 
sales team was created and momentum 
continued to build as evidenced by the 
signing of a number of new agreements 
with blue chip organisations which should 
deliver revenues over the coming years.  
In 2007 agreements were signed with 
Codere, Galaxy Entertainment, Silver 
Heritage, and Stanleybet (Cyprus), deals 
which take the Group’s products into a 
number of fast growing territories in South 
America and Asia. These follow on from 
the agreements signed with Tabcorp and 
Coca-Cola in calendar year 2006. We now 
have SBG terminals deployed in Germany, 
the Czech Republic, Mexico, Australia, the 
United States, Cambodia, Laos and 
Vietnam, and shortly in Galaxy’s flagship 
Starworld casino in Macau. 
The commercial trial to deploy Server 
Based digital vending machines for 
Coca-Cola is progressing well and machines 
have now been deployed in several cities 
in the United States and Germany including 
Philadelphia, Baton Rouge and Berlin 
following completion of the design 
and development phase. 
In summary, the International division 
delivered £3.1m of SBGSS sales in the 
year. The operating loss before taxation, 
goodwill amortisation and exceptional 
costs of £2.8m reflects the early stage 
nature of this division. The Directors 
expect International SBGSS sales to
grow significantly in the current and 
future financial years.
Following the creation of the International 
division, the Group no longer requires a 
physical presence locally in Italy and the 
decision was taken to close its Inspired 
Leisure Link Italia (ILLI) subsidiary. The 
costs of closure of £949,000 has been 
treated as an exceptional item. Future 
opportunities in Italy will be pursued 
through strategic partners, managed by the 
International division. While Italy continues 
to evolve into a leading European gaming 
jurisdiction, the pace at which it has 
adopted legislation to enable SBG has been 
disappointing and in the current financial 
year we expect to focus our international 
efforts on other regions. 
The Group holds a 20% minority stake in 
Gmatica, a leading AWP concessionary in 
Italy. As we noted in our interim results 
announcement, Gmatica received a notice 
from the Corte Dei Conti, an Italian 
administrative body, inviting it to make 
representations in relation to alleged 
breaches of the concession agreement that 
it holds with the AAMS, the Italian Gaming 
Regulator. All other concessionaries 
received similar notices and the legal 
process is ongoing. The Directors believe 
that even if Corte Dei Conti were 
successful, the outcome would not have a 
materially prejudicial impact on the Group’s 
finances. However, as a precaution, the 
Directors have written down the value  
of the Group’s stake in Gmatica by £0.4m 
to £0.7m.
Group SBG Software  
and Services (‘SBGSS’)
Overall, Group SBGSS made excellent 
progress during the period with sales 
increasing 88% to £16.6m (2006: £8.8m). 
Group Co-Chief  
Executives’ Statement
continued
[ STYLE SHEETS FROM THIS FILE ARE NOT INTERCHANGEABLE WITH THE OTHER ARTWORK FILES FOR THIS JOB ] ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 INSPIRED GAMING GROUP PLC
 Gaming 
 Video Amusement With Prize
The Player is Inspired’s
broadband enabled Category C 
gaming machine. The graphically 
rich content and variety of
content styles appeals to a wider 
cross section of players than the 
current traditional product. 
Delivering an enhanced content 
offer is key to the appeal for new 
and lapsed players.
Benefits 
Customised content delivery to maximise 
revenue without the need to remove and 
install cabinets 
Familiar engineering and ergonomics to 
retain the traditional player 
Multi-game offer which can be customised 
to meet the commercial requirements of 
a venue including enabling a single game 
to maximise revenue hot-spots. 
Networked, broadband terminals allowing 
remote monitoring and automatic fault 
diagnostics thus minimising fault rates 
and engineer call-outs 
Features 
Touch screen technology allows easy 
play and browsing 
Optimised range of games delivering the 
ideal mix of graphically rich content 
New games delivered reliably and on a 
regular basis 
Removal of least popular content based 
on atomic play data 
More user friendly platform for new and 
lapsed players 
Familiar attract functionality to retain the 
traditional player
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Furthermore, these sales were achieved at 
a significantly higher margin (2007: 87%, 
2006: 71%) reflecting the signing of a 
number of new licence agreements which 
will increase our pool of recurring revenues 
in future years. Gross Profit from SBGSS 
therefore increased by some 129% to 
£14.5m (2006: £6.3m). In total, the Group 
sold 7,977 licences during the year. Total 
licences sold as at 29 September  
were 11,327.
Direct Costs
The number of SBG terminals within the 
Group’s machine estate has now reached 
the point where, as expected, they are 
delivering significant operating efficiencies. 
Once critical mass is reached costs are 
lower for a variety of reasons:- 
SBG machine content is changed 
remotely by uploading from a central 
server. (With analogue machines, 
content can only be changed by 
physically replacing the machine);
SBG repairs can often be conducted 
remotely ‘over the wire’, obviating the 
need for expensive field staff visits; 
SBG incomes are also monitored 
remotely unlike traditional machines 
where the income data has to be 
manually retrieved. This allows the 
Group to outsource, in some instances, 
the process of cash collection to its 
retailer partners; and 
SBG machines have a longer life than 
analogue machines which, all things being 
equal, results in lower levels of capital 
expenditure and therefore a reduced 
depreciation charge. This is accentuated 
by the Group’s proven ability to lower 
the build cost of its terminals.
In the year the Group reported: 
a 6% fall in the average field cost of 
serving each machine owned by the 
Group. This translated into an absolute 
year-on-year cost decrease of £7.1m;
a 7% fall in the average depreciation 
charge for each machine owned. In total, 
depreciation fell by £7.6m year-on-year; 
and
a 17% fall on average in content and 
communications cost for each SBG 
terminal as the Group leveraged its scale. 
We expect to see further improvement in 
the Group’s key cost metrics in the current 
financial year.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
[ STYLE SHEETS FROM THIS FILE ARE NOT INTERCHANGEABLE WITH THE OTHER ARTWORK FILES FOR THIS JOB ]  2
Group Co-Chief 
Executives’ Statement
continued
Overheads and 
Product Development
Overheads (which include the costs of 
product development and remote terminal 
support) increased by £6.3m to £38.0m, 
as expected. Not surprisingly being publicly 
quoted has led to an increase in costs. 
More significantly, we have also taken 
the decision to reinvest some of the SBG-
driven margin improvement to strengthen 
further the Group’s software development 
capacity and UK and international sales 
capacity to ensure that it can deliver on 
the significant opportunities that the rapid 
global growth of SBG presents. For 
example, the average number of design and 
development specialists employed by the 
Group has increased from 164 to 321 
during the year. The Directors believe that 
the current infrastructure is now sufficient 
to deliver the opportunities at hand and 
consequently do not expect overheads to 
increase materially in the current financial 
year beyond the level incurred in financial 
year 2007. 
Innovation is the life-blood of the Group 
and the rate of new product development 
highlights our commitment in this area. Our 
SBG product portfolio has been expanded 
to incorporate Category B3 slots, Blackjack, 
Keno, Baccarat, Video Lottery and a Casino 
Virtual Sportsbook. A number of the 
Group’s products have also been localised 
for territories throughout the world. 
Crucially, the Group’s Open SBG
TM
 
platform has enabled the creation of brand 
new gaming machine concepts such as SBG 
slots with integrated electronic roulette, 
Category B and Skills with Prizes content. 
These terminals, which have been rolled- 
out in the UK, provide the end-user with 
unprecedented choice and the venues 
with exceptional flexibility as they have the 
ability, for example, to change the content 
mix by time of day. 
Interest 
The net interest charged to the profit and 
loss account is £7.4m of which £6.8m is 
cash interest. The balance relates to  
non- cash items such as the writing back  
of the discounting factor pertaining to  
the Red Vision deferred consideration  
(£0.8m) and the amortisation of bank  
debt issue costs (£0.3m).
Tax
The total taxation charge for the year
is £3.5m. This consists of a mainstream 
corporation tax charge of £2.0m and 
deferred tax of £1.5m due to the tax rate 
change this year. The underlying tax rate in 
respect of the year of 33% was higher than 
the standard corporation tax rate of 30% 
as a result of disallowed expenditure.  
The Directors will continue to seek 
opportunities to keep the rate as low  
as possible. 
[ STYLE SHEETS FROM THIS FILE ARE NOT INTERCHANGEABLE WITH THE OTHER ARTWORK FILES FOR THIS JOB ] ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 INSPIRED GAMING GROUP PLC
 Cash Flow
The Group generated £7.4m of operating 
cash flow after net capital expenditure of 
£53.6m. Operating cash flow is stated after 
an investment of over £5.0m in machine 
capital to fund the roll-out at Betfred in the 
latter part of the financial year (and will 
therefore deliver financial benefits for 
many years to come) and a working capital 
outflow of £8.6m due to investments 
in inventory to deliver on the pipeline of 
SBG opportunities in the current year and 
timing of creditor payments. Of the £7.4m 
of operating cash flow (after net capital 
expenditure), debt service payments 
absorbed £6.8m and tax and the interim 
dividend absorbed a further £1.1m and 
£1.2m respectively.
We expect capital expenditure in the 
current financial year to be at a similar
level to financial year 2007 in order to take 
advantage of a number of high-return SBG 
opportunities both in the UK and overseas. 
It is intended to fund these opportunities 
from the Group’s existing cash resources, 
operating cash flow and by the release of 
capital from the low returning parts of the 
Group’s machine estate.
Summary
We are pleased with the Group’s progress 
during the year, having achieved our 
financial and strategic goals. During the year 
we witnessed an increased intent from 
leading gaming organisations worldwide
to adopt SBG technologies. Our long and 
proven track record of delivering better 
machine incomes for our customers 
through SBG leaves the Group well placed 
to capitalise on this fundamental trend. In 
the short term the Group’s pub related 
business faces challenges caused by the 
smoking ban and general consumer 
weakness. We will continue to deploy
SBG to drive income growth, maximise 
efficiency and reduce costs in this segment 
to mitigate the impact of these challenges 
and we keep our strategy in the pubs 
under review. However the Group has
a diverse revenue base and the growth 
prospects in all other segments both in 
the UK and overseas remain positive. We 
look forward to further consolidating our 
strength in the Open SBG
TM
 market
in the current financial year. 
Luke Alvarez & Norman Crowley
Group Co-Chief Executives
25 January 2008
1  ‘EBITdA’ represents Earnings Before Interest, Taxation, 
Non-Machine Depreciation, Amortisation, Exceptional 
Items and Share-Based Payment. EBITdA is, in the opinion 
of the Directors, the most appropriate measure of cash 
profits after recurring investment in machines.
2  ‘EBITA’ represents Earnings Before Interest, Taxation, 
Amortisation, Exceptional Items and Share-Based 
Payment.
3  Represents increase on comparative un-audited 53 week 
proforma period ended 30 September 2006.
[ STYLE SHEETS FROM THIS FILE ARE NOT INTERCHANGEABLE WITH THE OTHER ARTWORK FILES FOR THIS JOB ]
