  Strategy – SBG
The Group’s strategy remains focused on 
maximising shareholder returns through:
the improvement of the quality of the 
Group’s machine estate through the 
conversion of the majority of its 
analogue machines to higher margin 
Server Based terminals, and the 
redeployment of capital to fund 
higher returning SBG opportunities;
using SBG technology to improve 
efficiency and reduce costs of Machine 
Operations; and
developing and selling the Group’s  
SBG software platforms and digital 
content internationally and into 
diverse segments.
The Group continues to make substantial 
progress against each of these objectives. 
The transition from analogue to SBG 
continues to be managed smoothly, and 
SBG machines now account for 31% of the 
Group’s owned estate. During the last 
12 months turnover has remained stable 
despite the planned reduction in the low 
margin parts of the Group’s estate of 
analogue machines as we have focused on 
enhancing the quality of the overall estate. 
•
•
•
The analogue turnover foregone has been 
replaced with higher quality SBG sales 
which has resulted in the Group’s EBITA
2
 
margin increasing from 9.9% to 13.3%. I am 
particularly pleased to report that we have 
achieved a reduction in all key cost metrics 
(on a per machine basis) and that the Gross 
Profit from SBG Software and Services 
increased by some 129%. 
Commercial developments – 
Diverse Revenue Growth
During the period, the Group signed a 
number of significant SBG deals which 
demonstrate both a deepening of its 
relationships with a number of existing 
UK customers and the broadening of 
its international footprint. For example:
An exclusive supply contract to provide 
Fixed Odds Betting Terminals (FOBTs) 
to Betfred, the leading independent 
bookmaker.
The commencement of scale roll out 
of SBG Bingo terminals across the Gala 
Bingo estate. 3,000 terminals are 
contracted to be deployed in the 
first half of calendar year 2008.
An agreement to supply the Group’s 
Open SBG
TM
 platform and content to 
•
•
•
Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to report the Group’s 
financial results for the 52 weeks to 
29 September 2007, the first full 
financial year since its admission to 
AIM. Reported Operating Profit for 
the period is £11.4m, and reported 
Profit before Tax £3.8m from 
Turnover of £166.3m.
EBITdA
1
 and EBITA
2
 are 28%
3
 
and 30%
3
 ahead respectively of 
the corresponding period last 
year, substantially in line with 
expectations. These results 
demonstrate the financial benefits 
associated with the Group’s 
continued transition towards Server 
Based Gaming (‘SBG’) technologies. 
Furthermore, the profit growth has 
been achieved despite significant 
investment in our growth platform 
following the strengthening of the 
leadership team, deepening of the 
software development resource and 
the creation of an international sales 
function. As a result the Group now 
has a fast growing and diverse set of 
SBG profit streams.
Financial Performance – SBG
The performance of the Group was:
  Audited Audited  Unaudited  
  statutory  statutory proforma 
  52 weeks ended  21 weeks ended  53 weeks ended  
  29 Sept 2007  30 Sept 2006  30 Sept 2006 
  £’m £’m £’m
Group Turnover  166.3m 58.0m 171.1m
Group EBITdA
1
  26.8m 10.0m 21.0m
Group EBITA
2
   22.1m 8.6m 17.0m
1  ‘EBITdA’ represents Earnings Before Interest, Taxation, Non-Machine Depreciation, Amortisation, Exceptional Items and 
Share-Based Payment. EBITdA is, in the opinion of the Directors, the most appropriate measure of cash profits after 
recurring investment in machines.
2 ‘EBITA’ represents Earnings Before Interest, Taxation, Amortisation, Exceptional Items and Share-Based Payment
3 Represents increase on comparative un-audited 53 week proforma period ended 30 September 2006.
[ STYLE SHEETS FROM THIS FILE ARE NOT INTERCHANGEABLE WITH THE OTHER ARTWORK FILES FOR THIS JOB ] ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 INSPIRED GAMING GROUP PLC
5
1,500 FOBTs in Ladbrokes betting shops 
in the UK.
A global agreement to supply Open 
SBG™ technology to Codere SA, the 
leading international gaming operator.
A contract to supply our SBG terminals 
to Galaxy Entertainment in Macau at its 
flagship Galaxy Star World Casino.
Since the year end:
The supply contract with Bourne 
Leisure has been significantly expanded 
with the introduction of over 2,000 
more machines.
The Group has renewed its supply 
contract with William Hill for four years 
and will provide FOBTs at 75% of its 
betting shops.
Corporate Developments 
Our strong performance was delivered 
despite the significant resources taken up 
by the indicative offer received from FL 
Group hf (‘FL Group’), an international 
investment company, in the last – and 
most financially significant – quarter of 
the financial year. FL was not able to 
make a formal offer for the Company 
as a result of the prevailing conditions 
in the financial markets. 
Earlier in the financial year, the Group 
had secured a £15.3m investment from 
FL Group, through a subscription for 
6,371,667 new ordinary shares of 1p each 
(‘Subscription Shares’) at 240.5p per 
Subscription Share, the prevailing price at 
the time. With the Group seeing strong 
demand for its products by customers both 
in the UK and overseas, the proceeds 
provided the Group with increased 
financial flexibility to pursue organic growth 
and potential ‘bolt-on’ acquisitions. The 
proceeds also allow the Group to act 
quickly to take advantage of gaming 
deregulation in a number of overseas 
territories. FL Group remains a 
supportive shareholder. 
Regulatory Developments 
A number of regulatory changes have  
been introduced during the financial year, 
which have provided financial benefits to 
the Group. 
In March we saw the implementation 
of the Category C AWP machine stake 
and prize increase from 30p and £25 to 
50p and £35 respectively. As expected, 
•
•
•
•
•
Gaming
Bingo
Inspired Gaming Group plc 
is now deploying ,000 Bingo 
Wizard terminals into the Gala 
Bingo Estate. The terminals allow 
the user to play main stage bingo 
and interval bingo as well as an 
increasing range of skill games and 
AWP content. Integrated into 
Inspired supplied GGP network, 
this gives the operator the 
opportunity to present more 
entertainment opportunities to  
its customers in a fully cashless 
gaming environment.
Benefits
Fully cashless gaming, e-purse stored 
within membership card, and accessed 
though ATM style terminals in venue
Reduced queuing time for ticket 
purchase, all purchases made at terminal
Multiple bingo ticket purchase means 
more chance of winning and extended 
spend opportunities for operator
Features
Rapid deployment of new games to all 
terminals in venue
Opportunity for promotional packages 
and offers for multiple purchases
Fully integrated into existing main stage 
and prize bingo systems
•
•
•
•
•
•
[ STYLE SHEETS FROM THIS FILE ARE NOT INTERCHANGEABLE WITH THE OTHER ARTWORK FILES FOR THIS JOB ] 6
the change provided a welcome lift to 
the sector and has, to date, removed 
downward pressure on AWP machine 
rents.
In September 2007, the Gambling Act 
2005 was introduced. Two aspects of 
the Act in particular have had a positive 
impact: 
an expansion of the game content 
permitted on FOBTs (including 
Blackjack, Poker and high stakes slots) 
and an extension in shop opening 
hours; and
the ability for the Group to share in 
AWP machine revenues in pubs – 
which is particularly relevant to 
the Group’s roll-out of its Open 
SBG™ AWP terminals which 
deliver higher incomes than their 
analogue equivalents.
The Group also expects to benefit from 
the regulated growth in the casino estate 
in the UK over the coming years, through 
its suite of SBG casino product and machine 
services and supply. I would also take this 
opportunity to confirm that the Group  
has not been affected by the removal of 
Section 21 gaming machines. 
The smoking ban came into effect in England 
on 1 July 2007. We receive fixed rents for 
our analogue AWP machines located in 
pubs and since the introduction of the ban 
these have remained stable. As expected, 
we have seen a high single-digit decline 
in AWP volumes although these volume 
reductions have been concentrated in the 
lower margin and less valuable tenanted and 
free trade segments. We have seen larger 
than expected income declines in our 
shared income pub products such as 
the ITBox Skill With Prize terminal. 
We believe that the declines may be as a 
result not only of the smoking ban but also 
lower footfall associated with a general 
downturn in consumer confidence that a 
number of our pub customers have recently 
reported. As noted above, the picture is 
very different in the bookmakers where 
our SBG terminals have continued to show 
•
•
•
strong growth year-on-year since the 
commencement of the ban. We have also 
witnessed an increased demand for our SBG 
Bingo solutions as the income uplifts mitigate 
much of the adverse effects of the smoking 
ban that bingo operators have experienced. 
It is too early to evaluate any long-term 
impact on the pub sector. In Scotland, 
where the ban was introduced in March 
2006 we have experienced a very slight 
improvement in pub trading conditions. 
As in England, the SBG terminals in Scottish 
bookmakers have performed strongly during 
the period. We are monitoring conditions in 
the pubs closely. To date, we have removed 
costs in that segment and will take any 
further actions deemed necessary to 
protect Group profits. 
People
The Group has increased the depth of its 
management team throughout all areas of 
the organisation to ensure that it is properly 
resourced to exploit the global growth of 
SBG. We have also reorganised the Group 
to create fully integrated divisions centred 
on key customer groupings each with 
dedicated field and remote fix operations, 
software development and finance support. 
This has created a more profit focused and 
streamlined organisation which has enabled 
us to remove cost.
Our employees continue to perform with 
drive and commitment as we transition the 
business to a greater proportion of SBG-
related revenue. Once again, I would like to 
take this opportunity to thank them for their 
efforts and their commitment. 
Dividend
I am pleased to announce that the Board 
is recommending the payment of a maiden 
final dividend of 6.7p per Ordinary share at 
a cost of £4.7m giving a total dividend for 
the year of 8.4p per Ordinary share at a 
total cost of £5.9m. The record date will 
be 8 February 2008. 
Chairman’s Statement
continued
[ STYLE SHEETS FROM THIS FILE ARE NOT INTERCHANGEABLE WITH THE OTHER ARTWORK FILES FOR THIS JOB ] ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 INSPIRED GAMING GROUP PLC
7
Gaming 
Casino Products 
Inspired Gaming Group plc has 
developed a range of electronic 
casino products which offer a  
wide range of cabinet solutions  
as well as a wide variety of casino 
content items.
The Multi-Win Roulette range of products 
offers up to four live roulette wheels for  
the player to bet against with ‘picture in picture’ 
from each wheel via digital video feed available 
on the terminal. There are a variety of cabinet 
options allowing flexible integration into the 
casino design.
New content items including a Virtual 
Sportsbook allow casinos to schedule virtual 
sports events from Inspired’s BAFTA award-
winning Redvision team and display events on 
large screens, offer the player the opportunities 
to bet on the outcome of the events, played 
from the same terminals as Roulette.
Benefits
Hardware design allows full integration 
into casino environment
Multiple content types available with 
more events in development, can be 
deployed via network link
Multiple wheel operation extends betting 
opportunities increasing average spend
Features
Flexible content management 
and scheduling
Fault management via remote 
diagnostic tools
Virtual Sportsbook features randomised 
race events with infinite race scenarios
•
•
•
•
•
•
Outlook
These results clearly demonstrate the 
financial benefits of the Group’s SBG 
focused strategy. These positive trends are 
expected to continue for many years given 
the general expansion of gaming globally 
and more specifically, a gaming machine 
replacement cycle which is expected to 
benefit disproportionately suppliers of  
SBG systems.
Trading in the first quarter of the current 
year has been satisfactory. The diversity of 
our profit streams together with our focus 
on fast growth areas of the gaming market  
is serving us well in financial year 2008. 
As has been widely acknowledged, the UK 
pub environment has been challenging  
due to the smoking ban in England and 
Wales coinciding with declining consumer 
confidence. This has affected machine 
incomes in that segment more than originally 
anticipated especially during the Christmas 
trading period. 
However the majority of the shortfall has 
been offset by a combination of the strong 
performance from our SBG terminals in the 
gaming sector together with SBG-enabled 
cost reductions. We have a strong pipeline 
of further SBGSS opportunities and further 
SBG-related UK cost efficiencies. The 
trading performance of the Group is, as 
ever, weighted towards the second half of 
the financial year. We anticipate this bias will 
be greater than in the past as the second 
half represents the most active trading 
period for our growing SBGSS activities 
and will see the benefit from recent 
machine management contract wins.
The Directors therefore remain optimistic 
about the future prospects of the Company.
Russell Hoyle
Chairman
25 January 2008
1  ‘EBITdA’ represents Earnings Before Interest, Taxation, 
Non-Machine Depreciation, Amortisation, Exceptional 
Items and Share-Based Payment. EBITdA is, in the opinion 
of the Directors, the most appropriate measure of cash 
profits after recurring investment in machines.
2  ‘EBITA’ represents Earnings Before Interest, Taxation, 
Amortisation, Exceptional Items and Share-Based 
Payment.
3  Represents increase on comparative un-audited 53 week 
proforma period ended 30 September 2006. 
[ STYLE SHEETS FROM THIS FILE ARE NOT INTERCHANGEABLE WITH THE OTHER ARTWORK FILES FOR THIS JOB ]
