 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 06
“The foundations of Intec are strong and our ability  
to generate profitable new business in the future 
remains. Our recent contract wins and strong  
pipeline demonstrate the potential of the business. 
This, combined with the steps we have taken to 
reduce our cost base and improve our efficiency, 
gives us confidence that we will quickly return to 
higher profitability.”
A YEAR OF 
CONSOLIDATION
OvERvIEw
This has been a challenging year for Intec,  
with a financial performance that has not met 
expectations. After a promising first half, in 
which we recorded good progress over FY 
2005, the second half proved to be much more 
difficult. Entering the second half with a solid 
pipeline of new business opportunities, we 
were hit by a succession of events that 
ultimately made it impossible for us to achieve 
our financial goals for the full year. Whilst we 
took rapid action to reduce costs, including an 
acceleration of ongoing plans to move towards 
a lower cost, offshore delivery model, the 
timing of these events made it inevitable that 
the revenue shortfall would seriously impact 
earnings for the year. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S 
STATEMENT AND REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 07
www. INTECBILLINg.COM
The biggest single cause of the difficulties 
we experienced was consolidation among 
major operators. This was most apparent  
in North America, where a number of our 
largest customers and business prospects 
are engaged in such transactions. The same 
issue is also apparent in other regions, 
including Europe, albeit with less direct 
impact on our business. The net effect  
has been to both delay some important 
purchasing decisions and project milestones, 
as well as to eliminate some opportunities 
that may be available to us. One specific 
consequence of this consolidation was the 
delay in the rollout of a major project for one 
of our largest US customers. This has led to 
uncertainty over the timing of payments that 
Intec had been expecting to receive from this 
customer. As a result we have decided, as of 
30 September 2006, not to recognise £5.5m 
of license revenue associated with this 
contract which had been recognised prior to 
the announcement of this consolidation. As  
a result, revenue for the year was £112.3 
million, or a decline of 3% on FY 2005. 
EBITDA before exceptional items was 
inevitably severely affected, at £3.6 million 
against £16.3 million in FY 2005. The 
reduction in revenue was exclusively in 
licence business, with revenue from both 
professional services and recurring revenues 
increasing slightly on FY 2005.
Aside from these issues, which have 
primarily affected larger billing projects, our 
classic business has continued to perform 
well, with an increase in both the number 
and the average value of new contracts for 
several key products as compared with FY 
2005. Market analysis reports from several 
respected commentators have identified our 
continuing leadership across our key market 
segments, and we are now clearly 
recognised globally as a leading supplier  
in the retail billing sector. 
CuSTOMER wINS
Announced customer wins in 2006 include 
China Mobile, Dialog Telekom in Sri Lanka, 
MTNL in India, Asia-Pacific Broadband 
Wireless of Taiwan, KPN in Holland, 
TelstraClear in New Zealand, a major 3G 
operator in Vietnam, VimpelCom in Russia, 
Mobilink in Pakistan, Verizon Dominicana, 
CTBC in Brazil, a major US cable provider 
and TSTT in Trinidad and Tobago. These wins 
drove good growth in both our CALA and 
APAC regions. In addition, Norwich Union 
chose Intec Convergent Billing for its 
innovative ‘Pay As You Drive’ vehicle 
insurance scheme, underlining the flexibility 
of our technology.
Intec’s licensed customer base grew  
during FY 2006 to 641 installations in 386 
companies (FY 2005: 599 installations in  
363 companies on a comparable, pro-forma 
basis). The management team continues to 
seek both organic and acquisition-driven 
growth opportunities.
PROdu CTS
Intec has one of the BSS/OSS industry’s most 
comprehensive product, solution and service 
portfolios. The company works to preserve 
its lead in BSS/OSS by being responsive to 
trends in the market, by ensuring it 
understands customers’ changing needs  
and by maintaining a clear roadmap for  
each product set and a commitment  
to continued investment. 
In FY 2006 we made good progress with 
both existing products and new market 
launches. Both Intec Interconnect and Intec 
Mediation are market leaders in their sector, 
with strong sales momentum for both 
product lines, and many customers choosing 
to transition to the latest versions. New 
products brought to market included Intec 
Centralised Error Management System (Intec 
CEMS), which helps carriers identify and 
eliminate revenue-draining problems in their 
billing processes, and the Intec Mobile 
Business Solution, a pre-integrated billing 
system targeted on smaller or start-up 
wireless operators and MVNOs. We also 
launched the Intec Data Retention Solution  
in partnership with EMC and SenSage, to 
address new EU legislative requirements for 
communications carriers and ISPs to retain 
customer calling data for anti-crime and 
anti-terrorism purposes. 
ACTIONS uNdERTAKEN TO IMPROvE 
PERFORMANCE
Intec expanded rapidly in the years prior to 
FY 2006 through a combination of organic 
and acquisition growth. Despite the 
setbacks experienced in the latter half of  
this year, we remain a growth-oriented 
company with a clear strategic vision to be 
the leader in BSS/OSS product sales. During 
FY 2006 we have undertaken a number of 
strategic initiatives to help us deliver this 
vision, while improving efficiency and 
profitability. We expect these initiatives to 
deliver cost savings in FY 2007 and beyond.
delivery off-shoring – Like many 
companies serving global markets, we are 
pursuing a strategy to reduce our cost base 
through use of lower-cost locations, 
primarily for product delivery (professional 
services) staff. This is a medium-term 
programme, as it takes time to recruit, train 
and bring new staff into fully productive use. 
We now have around 300 staff in our 
Bangalore facility, the majority of whom are 
now active on customer projects. During the 
latter half of the year we accelerated this 
transition programme, and we have reduced 
our staff numbers in our higher cost 
locations accordingly.
Cost reduction – Intec constantly reviews 
its business structure for cost-efficiency  
and effectiveness. In August we initiated a 
comprehensive review of staff levels and 
performance across the business, including  
a program of reductions and some 
reassignments, resulting in a headcount 
reduction of some 140 people as well as 
other savings. Although this has resulted in 
an exceptional cost this year, it will deliver 
substantially greater savings in FY 2007  
and future years. INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 08
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT AND REVIEW CONTINUED
Our industry is extremely dynamic and it is 
important to ensure that we have offerings 
that are in demand from customers today 
and also able to deliver value over future 
periods by being flexible and scalable to 
meet evolving business requirements and 
increasing performance demands. A good 
illustration of this is our Intec Convergent 
Billing product family. During FY 2006 we 
launched an important new version of this 
product, as well as benchmarking it to 
industry-leading levels of performance.  
The new version, v6.0.1, adds many 
enhancements and new features, the most 
notable of which concerns its abilities in the 
area of ‘revenue management’. Regulatory 
developments in a number of key 
geographies are forcing telecoms operators 
to look more closely at their revenue 
recognition and management policies, to 
ensure compliance with standards and 
legislation such as Sarbanes-Oxley. Our  
new Intec Convergent Billing – Revenue 
Management Edition, launched alongside 
v6.0.1, delivers the capabilities to do this and 
was a critical factor in enabling us to secure 
a recent contract in the financial services 
market in the face of strong competition.
To demonstrate the technical strength of our 
billing product we published a benchmark  
in September, in partnership with IBM, 
demonstrating the capability of Intec 
Convergent Billing to handle a sustained 
throughput equivalent to the needs of a 
customer base of 60 million pre-paid 
subscribers. The benchmark was based on  
a current customer implementation and 
reflected realistic operating conditions and 
data. Projections from tests done at the 
same time showed that upgrading the IBM 
servers with the latest processors will 
provide a 25% improvement in throughput, 
giving a capacity of more than 75 million 
pre-paid subscribers. This is an outstanding 
result, and underlines our capabilities to 
serve the largest customers.
Our confidence in our products is underlined 
by numerous supportive reports from  
the analyst community. 
For example, in mid-2006 we were pleased 
to hear from one leading market analyst, 
Gartner Group, that we are unequivocally 
number one in the mediation market, and 
that we have also steadily grown our 
progress in billing, to be ranked third in  
new licence sales behind much larger 
competitors. We were also pleased to win  
an industry award in the US for product 
excellence for Intec CEMS.
gLOBAL BuSINESS OPERATIONS
The global nature and worldwide reach of 
Intec is clearly demonstrated by the 90% of 
revenues that are generated outside the UK. 
To address our global market place Intec’s 
distribution capability is structured around 
four geographic regions. This ensures that 
account management, sales, services and 
support are close to our customers – a key 
Intec priority. Each of our four regional 
headquarters provides full management, 
financial and technical support capabilities. 
A further 25 sales/support offices 
complement these operations, including 
facilities in Africa, Australia, Canada, China, 
France, Russia and Dubai. Our policy is to 
maintain offices in regions where sales 
opportunities or customer requirements 
justify it, and in FY 2006 we opened new 
facilities in Russia, Dubai and Poland, as well 
as closing some smaller offices in regions 
that were better served from larger facilities.
The Product Operations division – which 
encompasses product development, product 
management and product commercialisation 
– is based in locations in Australia, Denmark, 
South Africa and the US to provide the right 
balance of development cost and technical 
expertise. We continue to review the cost 
and location of development effort to 
ensure it is appropriate to our needs, and 
have made a number of changes aimed at 
greater cost efficiency in 2006.
ACTIONS uNdERTAKEN TO IMPROvE 
PERFORMANCE – CONTINuEd
Investment in unifying and improving 
our infrastructure – Around 18 months 
ago we decided to embark on a three year 
investment programme to standardise our 
ERP, finance and HR systems on a single 
platform. This will enable the business to 
operate with greater efficiency, increased 
operational information and more timely 
decision making. Towards the end of FY 
2006 we have begun to see the benefits of 
this investment as all areas of the business 
have started to use the new systems.
New markets – Intec has begun to  
see success for its billing and mediation 
technology in certain markets outside 
telecoms, most notably financial services. 
We are pursuing a number of such 
opportunities in this and other markets,  
and we will continue to invest cautiously  
to develop business in this area. 
Revised sales operation – As part of our 
restructuring process, in the latter part of 
the year we initiated a review of our sales 
channels and organisation, resulting in 
improvements to our sales and marketing 
processes. These are designed to maximise 
the business opportunities we see, as well  
as ensuring that our commercial resources 
are correctly and efficiently aligned with 
customer needs. We will continue to review 
our sales team performance as we go 
forward to ensure Intec remains ahead of  
its competitors in terms of bid/win ratio.
global business review – During the 
summer we began a process which has 
resulted in a global review of our business 
structure and practices, building on a review 
of our General and Administrative costs 
undertaken earlier in 2006. The primary aim 
of this Board-sponsored review is to ensure 
that the business is optimised to operate 
efficiently, thereby delivering future earnings 
growth and maximising shareholder returns. 
Good cost control, accurate budgeting, 
efficient working practices and examination 
of return-on-investment are continually 
emphasised at all levels of the Company. YEAR END HEADCOUNT NUMBER
1,564
2005
1,700
2006
1,335
2004
646
2003
507
2002
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 09
www. INTECBILLINg.COM
EuR SYSTEMS
We announced in September the completion 
of the acquisition of the operating assets of 
outsourced billing and business process 
outsourcing (BPO) specialist EUR Systems  
for approximately £7.1 million. EUR is being 
integrated with Intec’s existing Carrier 
Access Billing (CABS) and retail billing service 
bureau operations in North America, to offer 
a comprehensive suite of end-user, 
wholesale billing and BPO solutions to the 
North American ILEC, CLEC and IXC market. 
This acquisition allows Intec to increase its 
market share in the access billing space and 
to expand our capabilities as an outsourced 
billing and business process provider. 
 
Since completion we have been working  
on a rapid integration of EUR, as well as 
developing its business pipeline. I am also 
pleased to report that we are signing 
customer contract renewals on a regular 
basis, including two recently completed 
multi-million dollar, multi-year contracts 
with high-profile customers. 
STAFF
At year end, the Intec team numbered 
approximately 1,700 staff at 31 locations  
in 25 countries around the world. Some 
92% of staff are based outside the UK, 
underlining the international nature of the 
Intec business. The integration of around 
200 people from EUR was rapid and without 
disruption to existing activities. Attracting 
and retaining excellent staff is key to the 
success of the business and to this end we 
have strengthened our HR team to ensure 
we have the optimum approach to our staff 
and their experience at Intec. I would like to 
take this opportunity to thank Intec staff for 
their continuing support to the business 
throughout a challenging year.
OuTLOOK
The foundations of Intec are strong and our 
ability to generate profitable new business in 
the future remains. Our recent contract wins 
and strong pipeline demonstrate the 
potential of the business. This, combined 
with the steps we have taken to reduce our 
cost base and improve our efficiency, gives 
us confidence that we will quickly return to 
higher profitability. We expect revenues for 
FY 2007, including those generated through 
our acquisition of EUR Systems, to increase 
in low double digit percentage terms over 
our reported FY 2006. The Board, Executive 
team, and staff are fully focused on 
improving financial performance for 2007. 
KEvIN AdAMS
Chief Executive Officer
12 December 2006
386
customers W o N to d Ate
