 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 04
2006 has been a year of disappointing 
financial performance for Intec. After  
a start to the year which met our 
expectations, with revenues improved over 
the first half of 2005, we failed to generate 
the anticipated level of revenues in the 
second half. The shortfall in 2006 can,  
in the main, be attributed to the adverse 
commercial effects resulting from 
consolidation in the US telecommunications 
market, exacerbated by delays in closing 
some forecast new business.
In spite of the poor financial performance, 
in 2006 Intec consolidated its position as  
a leader in the Business and Operations 
Support Systems (BSS/OSS) market where it 
operates. We strengthened the business by 
acquiring 23 new customers; bringing new 
expertise into the management team; 
enhancing and expanding our product 
portfolio to better serve customers; and 
developing our US business with the 
acquisition of EUR Systems. This year  
we also welcomed a new non-executive 
“Our market, primarily telecoms, remains competitive 
with several strong players challenging for business. 
But Intec has a strong offering, a good reputation, 
and a commitment to ongoing success. Our challenge 
is to ensure we maximise our opportunities in 2007, 
through balanced investment in products, delivery 
capability, marketing and sales, while significantly 
improving our fundamental financial performance.”
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
IMPROVING 
PERFORMANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 05
Director, Gordon Stuart, to the Board. 
As Finance Director of Xansa PLC, a 
technology and business services 
company, Gordon brings valuable insight 
and expertise to Intec, particularly in his 
role as chair of the Audit Committee.
As carriers seek to improve business 
performance and market share through 
innovation, diversification of offering and 
improved competitiveness, two key factors 
are driving the market – the move towards  
a converged environment, where operators 
offer multiple, complex services to their 
customers, and the ongoing consolidation 
among major players. While Intec has 
suffered in 2006 from the effects of 
consolidation among key customers and 
prospects, we see the changes taking place 
as ultimately beneficial, as Intec’s converged, 
world-class product and services offering 
has many benefits for operators looking to 
innovate and to improve performance. 
The Company has already executed a 
cost reduction programme. Although we 
have incurred an exceptional charge of 
£4.0 million in the current year, we expect 
it to achieve full payback within the first six 
months of FY 2007, with ongoing benefits 
thereafter. In addition, we have launched 
a broad-based review of the business 
aimed at optimising our business model 
and processes. The Board and management 
team remains focused on identifying 
additional operational improvements 
and cost saving measures that will 
deliver real financial benefits and thus 
improved profitability. 
SuMMARY
Our market, primarily telecoms, remains 
competitive with several strong players 
challenging for business. But Intec has a 
strong offering, a good reputation, and a 
commitment to ongoing success. Our 
challenge is to ensure we maximise our 
opportunities in 2007, through balanced 
investment in products, delivery capability, 
marketing and sales, while significantly 
improving our fundamental financial 
performance. We have taken steps to 
improve the performance of the business 
and I can say with certainty that the Board 
and the Intec leadership team are fully 
focused on delivering improved results 
which should drive increasing shareholder 
value in 2007.
jO hN hugh ES
Chairman
12 December 2006
1 North Americ A & cANA d A – £33.3m 2 Asi A p Acific – £18.9m 3 c Aribbe AN & l Ati N Americ A – £9.5m 4 europe middle e Ast & Afric A – £50.6m 641
customer i Nst All Atio Ns 
to d Ate REg IONAL REv ENuE BREAKdOw N
www. INTECBILLINg.COM
1
4
3
2
