 Revenue
£million
2009
2008
2007
2006
135.8 
124.5 
115.3 
167.9 
Adjusted EBITDA
£million
2009
2008
2007
2006
19.3 
14.7 
6.7 
31.2 
Cash
£million
2009
2008
2007
2006
28.9 
22.6 
26.0 
74.8 
INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2009
04
c hie F executive OFF icer ’s 
statement Intec has reported an excellent 
performance in 2009, delivering growth 
in revenues, profitability and cash. We 
have strengthened management across 
our organisation and have sharpened 
execution with a focus on sales, delivery 
and operational optimisation. We have 
improved our targeting of opportunities 
and our ability to both win and deliver 
new customer contracts. Cross-selling and 
up-selling to existing customers has been 
an important feature of this performance. 
Our broad spread of addressable markets 
has protected us somewhat from current 
global economic conditions and we have 
been successful in increasing our pipeline 
and contracted backlog following our 
increased focus on sales execution. Mature 
market operators have continued to upgrade 
and renew their legacy systems to improve 
efficiency and gain competitive advantage 
and in emerging markets, growth has 
come from deregulation and an increase 
in wireless subscribers. Although we are 
pleased with our results, we believe there 
is still opportunity to further enhance our 
financial performance. While continuing 
to monitor closely the economic pulse 
of our customers, we will make targeted 
investments to further improve our business. 
An important event for our employees, 
customers, partners and other stakeholders 
has been the relaunch of Intec both 
internally and externally through our ‘One 
Intec’ vision. This vision for the future is 
underpinned by the launch of clearly defined 
corporate values, refreshed imagery and 
a new corporate profile for the Group. 
FINANCIAL RESuLTS
I am especially pleased not only by our 
growth in revenue, profit and cash 
but also in our ability to build a strong 
backlog of business during a period of 
challenging economic conditions. 
During the year, we restructured, consolidated 
and strengthened our teams in both the 
Americas and APAC regions, and delivered 
2% and 14% growth at constant currency 
respectively. The comparison with the 
exceptional performance in 2008 masks the 
growth in the Americas, where business in 
the last quarter of 2009 for North America 
was particularly strong with several new 
strategic customer wins. APAC benefited from 
increased management focus as a primary 
growth area and in Europe, Middle East and 
Africa (EMEA) we won business across the 
region enabling very good growth of 7%. 
Sales and delivery execution has been 
excellent and our investment in new systems 
has substantially improved our pipeline and 
forecast management, leading to a higher 
degree of forecast accuracy and predictability 
and a better level of sales performance 
across our business. The year has been 
characterised by high sales conversion levels 
and an increase in our 30 September 2009 
contracted revenue backlog by over 20% 
when compared to the same time last year. 
Our global pipeline cover is significantly 
higher than it was at the start of 2009. 
CuSTOMER WINS AND 
PRODuCT DEVELOPMENT 
Intec’s strong sales results in 2009 arise 
from a healthy mix of new customer wins 
and repeat business from our existing 
customer base leading to an increase in 
market share against our major competitors. 
A recent report from Analysys Mason
1
, the 
telecoms industry analysts, now places Intec 
as the number three software provider, by 
revenue, of Billing Systems in the world.
Overall, Intec signed 24 new licence contracts 
in 2009 of which 15 were with new name 
customers and nine with our existing 
customer base. Nine of the 24 contracts 
are for multi-product sales, resulting in 
38 new product installations in total.
In addition, strong business growth 
among our existing licensed customers 
meant that 38 of them exceeded their 
licensed volume thresholds during the year 
triggering volume-based licence upgrades.
In our managed services business, we signed 
a number of small renewals and three major 
outsourcing contracts: a five-year deal with a 
new customer and two multi-year renewals. 
Customer wins came across all product 
categories and a broad geographical 
constituency spanning mature and 
emerging markets, with customers 
ranging from new ‘greenfield’ 
operators to long-established PTTs.
Of particular note was our success in  
winning eight new contracts for our  
Singl.eView retail billing solution, including 
two strategically important new customers 
outside of our traditional telecommunications 
service provider market: a global handset 
manufacturer and a global electronics 
retailer. In each case, Singl.eView will provide 
solutions for the commercialisation of 
content and online services, demonstrating 
the flexibility of the Singl.eView solution 
in addressing the business needs of the 
burgeoning Content and New Media markets. 
ANDREW TAYLOR
1 Analysys Mason Billing Multi-client Briefing, 28 October 2009. INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2009
05
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS
We have extended our market leadership 
in the settlement market with 19 new 
installations of our Wholesale Business 
Management Solution (WBMS). As with  
Singl.eView, these solutions are fully adapted 
for the next-generation content market and 
we were particularly pleased to win the 
contract to provide a multi-party content 
settlement solution for a Tier 1 ‘app store’.
We continue to win significant new 
business in our core service provider 
market where we have demonstrated the 
capability of Intec’s product portfolio by 
delivering contracts to a range of companies 
providing mobile, fixed-line, broadband 
and cable services. In this market, we are 
seeing an increasing requirement for real-
time solutions across mediation, rating, 
charging and settlement. Multiple wins in 
2009 for our Singl.eView on-line charging 
solution and our active mediation solution, 
IntersessioN, indicate that Intec is well-
positioned to meet these requirements.
We have continued to improve the 
competitiveness of our core portfolio and 
over the last year Intec has brought to 
market a number of new releases, offering 
enhanced functionality across all three 
product families. As well as the move to 
real-time, other common themes include 
features to increase scalability, reduce cost 
of ownership and provide more flexible 
reporting. Particularly significant is our ability 
to support low-cost commodity hardware, 
which will significantly reduce up-front and 
ongoing costs for our customer base and 
open up new potential markets for Intec.
STRATEGY 
Intec’s vision is to become the most 
trusted supplier of BSS products 
and solutions in the world. 
Earlier this year, we conducted an in-depth 
market and company assessment, resulting 
in the creation of a clear strategy, vision 
and set of business priorities for the future. 
This exercise included an evaluation of 
the relevancy of Intec to our customers 
and an examination of ways to improve 
our overall competitiveness and create the 
ability to drive growth and profitability. 
We will continue to invest prudently 
in our leading software products and 
solutions and will focus that investment 
in high value and high growth markets.
The BSS market offers significant growth 
potential and, despite the current economic 
conditions, continues to attract investment 
from telecoms service providers as they seek 
to adapt their business practices in search of 
new revenue streams and improved margins. 
In developed markets, investment is focused 
on support for next generation value-added 
services (also known as ‘Content Services’), 
whilst in emerging economies investment 
is driven by continued rapid subscriber 
growth, particularly in wireless. Intec’s 
recent product investments have anticipated 
many of these key market trends, ensuring 
that Intec’s portfolio remains as relevant as 
ever to the needs of our customer base.
In 2010, we will increase our investment 
in products and skills to ensure that our 
products remain world-class and deliver 
competitive advantage to our customers. 
These investments will occur across our 
portfolio and include innovative solutions for 
emerging business models in the settlement 
market, support for new technologies that 
take Singl.eView to new price-performance 
levels and investments in our mediation suite 
that will enhance our real-time capabilities.
In support of these product investments,  
we shall also focus on a number of  
complementary strategic initiatives across  
the business:
Customer Centricity: •	 Intec takes 
pride in the depth and quality of its 
customer relationships. Our broad and 
varied customer base is crucial to our 
future growth. By remaining close to 
our customers, we can learn at first-
hand the issues they are facing in 
their markets and make sure that our 
solutions continue to meet their needs. 
 In early 2010, we shall be conducting a 
comprehensive customer survey which will 
be used to drive continued improvements 
in our service levels and strengthen 
further our customer engagements.
Partnering: •	 We will establish strategic 
alliances and partnerships in order to 
increase our market reach and growth 
prospects, while augmenting our delivery 
and solutions capability and breadth.
 In 2009, we created a dedicated partner 
team and business plan that will ensure 
that partnerships are at the centre of 
our strategy moving forward. In line 
with this plan, we have recently signed 
two major new partnership agreements. 
A number of our new business wins 
were closed in collaboration with 
partners and we anticipate that this 
will be an important feature of our 
business development going forward. 
Intec’s vision is to become 
the most trusted supplier of 
Business Support Software 
(BSS) products and solutions 
in the world.  INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2009
06
c hie F executive OFF icer ’s 
statement CONTINUED
People: •	 We will strive to attract and retain 
the very best staff as we increase our 
shift to a performance-driven culture.
 During 2009, we worked with our 
employee base to develop a shared set of 
corporate values. These values, which are 
tightly aligned with our overall strategic 
goals, are now firmly embedded across all 
of our activities and play an important role 
in our internal performance management 
programme. A recent employee survey 
shows a very high level of employee 
engagement and has provided excellent 
feedback which we will use to drive further 
improvements across the business. 
Business Optimisation: •	 We will take  
steps to improve the efficiency and 
effectiveness of our operations, 
while continuing to simplify our 
business, making it easier to 
understand and do business with. 
 We have continued to invest in our 
Professional Services centre in India 
(Bangalore) and have increased staffing 
at our Professional Services centres 
in Malaysia (Kuala Lumpur) and Brazil 
(São Paulo). This emphasis will continue 
throughout 2010 as we develop further 
our off and near-shore capabilities, while 
also enhancing our customer-facing 
capabilities across all regions. We have 
strengthened our management team with 
senior hires to run our Customer Services, 
Managed Services and Global IT activities 
and identified a number of key initiatives 
that will enable us to further optimise our 
future performance. We will continue to 
develop our service delivery and product-
support capabilities, ensuring that we 
strengthen our reputation for delivering 
high quality software products on time and 
to excellent levels of customer satisfaction. 
SuMMARY AND OuTLOOK
Following on from a very strong performance 
in 2008, Intec has delivered an excellent 
performance in 2009. We have made 
substantial progress in executing against 
each of our strategic priorities and have 
focused on excellence by continuing to 
build and develop a world class team. 
We strengthened our regional business 
leadership, which, coupled with the 
implementation of global sales management, 
has enabled us to strengthen the quality 
of our new business pipeline. Our sales 
performance has been very strong with high 
win rates, which has enabled us to build a 
strong contracted revenue back-log for 2010.
We have continued to focus on efficiency 
by managing our costs more effectively and 
improving our delivery execution, ensuring 
that contracts are delivered on time and to 
a high level of customer satisfaction. We 
have continued to expand our geographical 
footprint in emerging growth markets. 
Looking forward, Intec enters the 2010 
financial year as a stronger and more 
mature business with an increased level 
of focus on executing our strategy and 
building a truly world class software 
company. We will continue to concentrate 
on delivering excellence across our business 
and through targeted investments in 
2010 we will continue to optimise our 
operations, strengthen our global delivery 
model, improve our competitiveness and 
enhance the environment to deliver long 
term sustainable revenue growth. This 
continued focus on enhancing our financial 
performance further will be balanced by our 
efforts to create a great place to work and a 
great company to work with and to deliver 
against our ‘One Intec’ vision and values. 
We enter 2010 with a strong pipe-line 
of prospects and contracted revenue 
20% higher than we entered 2009.
Notwithstanding the challenging 
economic and market conditions, we 
believe that with Intec’s established and 
growing customer base, robust financial 
position and market relevance we are 
well placed to deliver against our strategic 
objectives during 2010 and beyond. 
ANDREW TAYLOR
Chief Executive Officer
23 November 2009 
We are well placed to 
deliver against our 
strategic objectives during 
2010 and beyond. 
