 INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2009
02
chairman’s 
statement INTEC TELECOM SYSTEMS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2009
03
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS
2009 has marked another year 
of record growth, with a strong 
performance in both revenues and 
profits. Particularly pleasing was the 
excellent cash generation, which puts 
the Company on a very solid footing 
for the future, as well as enabling us to 
invest in our internal infrastructure and 
systems to support further growth.
The performance in 2009 is the culmination 
of your Board’s commitment to build a 
business with excellent people, first class 
leadership and financial performance in the 
upper quartile of our industry. Solid execution 
globally has led to this performance. On a 
geographic basis, we are pleased to see that 
our Asia Pacific operations have delivered 
14% constant currency growth year on year; 
the Europe, Middle East and Africa region 
has progressed well despite challenging 
economic conditions and trading in the 
Americas was, as anticipated, flat year on year.
Not only have we strengthened the leadership 
team but also we have deployed and 
continue to deploy, across the business, 
improved processes and systems all of which 
have and continue to lead to operational 
improvement, greater customer focus 
and an increased ability to measure the 
performance improvement of all that we 
do; Intec is committed to continuing this 
drive for performance improvement since 
we believe that it serves both customer and 
shareholder value creation and will serve us 
well no matter the external environment.
I am pleased to note that overall licensing 
volumes held up in the current climate and our 
Professional Services business showed strong 
growth following operational improvements 
by the new management team. Indeed, gross 
margins were buoyed by a strong contribution 
from Professional Services, which we believe 
is now approaching a competitive margin 
level, and in general supported by improved 
operational gearing. Over the coming 
year, we intend to continue to invest in the 
business to provide solid foundation for future 
growth. Our pipeline of new opportunities 
has been significantly strengthened and our 
visibility continues to improve; contracted 
revenue for the year ahead has also grown in 
comparison with the level 12 months ago. 
René Kern retired from the Board in April and 
I would like to thank him for his outstanding 
contribution over the past four years. I 
welcome Franchon Smithson in his place. 
The Company continues to invest for 
organic growth as well as considering 
earnings accretive acquisitions and the 
strength of the business and its balance 
sheet has led the Board to propose a 
dividend for the first time in our history, 
with a full-year payment of 1p per share. 
As these results attest, the last year has seen 
Intec transform itself as a business and I would 
especially like to thank all of our employees 
for their hard work and commitment 
during this period and our customers and 
partners for their confidence and support. 
JOhN huGhES
Chairman
23 November 2009
JOhN huGhES
