 Chairman’s introduction
page 2
InTechnology plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
In the year ended 31 March 2005
InTechnology has made clear and sustained
progress across all parts of the group. Most
significantly we reduced operating losses
(before amortisation of goodwill) within our
Managed Services division to £2.0m (2004:
£7.8m) achieving the breakthrough into
monthly operating profit (before
amortisation of goodwill) during the second
half of the financial year. Managed Services
division operating losses were reduced to
£4.3m (2004: £10.0m). Revenues in the
Specialist Distribution division increased by
26% to £261.4m (2004 restated: £207.4m).
Through investment in recent years,
InTechnology has developed a range of
managed services which allow organisations
to free up valuable management time by
outsourcing specific areas of IT
infrastructure. This division now has a
portfolio of 10 services, from data backup
and IP telephony to hosting and other
network services, and is a fundamental part
of our long-term competitive strategy.
Despite difficult trading conditions in the IT
market, our distribution business has enjoyed
revenue growth in each of its geographic
territories. Distribution agreements with new
vendors and extensions to existing contracts
have contributed to this growth, with
particularly excellent results coming from
sales of security solutions in the UK and
Continental Europe.
In the final quarter of the year, we began
the distribution of network products, thus
providing a natural link between storage and
security and completing our IT infrastructure
offering.
InTechnology’s corporate objectives remain
consistent and clear – to offer a complete
range of products, solutions and services to
meet the IT challenges organisations face in
today’s network-based computing
environment. We also remain committed to
selling through the IT channel of resellers,
consultants and systems integrators.
Our strategy is serving us well and has put
the business in a strong position to meet the
challenges of the IT market in the year ahead. 
Finally, the energy, technical ability and
enthusiasm of our people never fails to
impress me and I would like to thank all our
staff, as well as our vendor and reseller
partners, for their contributions to
InTechnology in the last year.
Lord Parkinson
Chairman
29 June 2005
The Rt. Hon Lord Parkinson
