 page 3
InTechnology plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
Peter Wilkinson
Chief Executive Officer’s report
Overview
We are very pleased with the progress made
by the Group this year, characterised in
particular by significant revenue growth
across our Specialist Distribution business
and, latterly, by reaching monthly operating
profit (before amortisation of goodwill) in
our Managed Services division.
In a challenging trading environment, we
have seen our operating profit (before
amortisation of goodwill) increase to £4.4m
(2004 restated: £1.4m). Group operating loss
was reduced to £0.3m (2004 restated:
£3.0m). We have aggressive plans for future
revenue growth and increased profitability
and we have already restructured our sales
team, brought on board new vendors and,
with the intellectual property in the
business, developed our own service
technologies to support this objective. We
are confident that our strategy remains
sound and that we are on track to meet
market expectations of sustainable profit
before tax.
Managed Services
Our managed services portfolio allows
organisations to outsource specific areas of
IT infrastructure to free up valuable staff
resource, improve service levels, reduce
operational cost and deliver the flexibility to
scale the service according to business
requirements.
The Managed Services division has required
significant investment in the five years since
commencement, culminating this year in an
increase in sales revenue of 52% to £22.1m
(2004: £14.5m). In addition, the division has
moved into monthly operating profit (before
amortisation of goodwill) in the second half
of the year. This positive contribution is a
key factor in the significant reduction in
Group operating loss this year.
During the year, we have seen many new
long-term contracts from blue-chip and
public sector organisations including Jarvis
Rail plc, Balfour Beatty, T-Mobile, Wanadoo
and London Business School. This new
business, together with our existing customer
base, means we have grown our recurring
revenue stream to £23.2m (2004: £18.0m).
We are also delighted that 60% (2004: 58%)
of our customers take 2 or more of our
range of 10 managed services. We expect to
build on this trend with new services
launched during the last year and further
services to be launched in the new fiscal
year. These include:
• IP Voice Connect™: an IP telephony
service for business
• A new version of our successful VBAK®
data backup and recovery service aimed
at the SME market
• Data replication services for Network
Appliance and EMC products
Another major development is an exciting
partnership with IBM Business Continuity &
Recovery Services, which will see our VBAK®
service sold to IBM customers through their
UK sales network. We are already an IBM
Premier Business Partner for hardware and
software distribution and I expect this
extension of our long-standing relationship
to make a major contribution to sales
revenue next year. page 4
InTechnology plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
Specialist Distribution
Despite a difficult trading environment
throughout the IT market, in particular
pressure on margins from vendors and
customers, our Specialist Distribution
division has increased sales by: 
• 16% in the UK
• 73% in Continental Europe
Gross margins have, however, been squeezed
as pressures from vendors and customers
have intensified.
We have seen much success this year in the
Distribution market, including:
• A strong performance in sales of
Network Appliance solutions in the year -
we expect to see the growth continue
• Becoming Europe’s leading distributor of
CheckPoint
• Extending our storage agreement with
Sun Microsystems to Channel
Development Partner for the entire
product range including storage,
enterprise servers and mobile computing 
• Becoming recognised as one of the
leading distributors for Nokia secure
mobile connectivity solutions in Europe,
the Middle East and Africa (‘EMEA’)
Following our acquisition of the specialist
security distributor Allasso on 31 July 2003,
we have now completed the integration of
all its operations across Continental Europe,
maximising the efficiency of the business
with centralised logistics, consistent
processes and a single management
information system. These internal changes
are combined with a focus on developing
customer relationships on a pan-European
basis with large resellers.
We are particularly pleased that our security
expertise was recognised by Microsoft in Q4
when they chose InTechnology to help them
move into the European IT security market.
In a new partnership agreement with
Microsoft and Network Engines, we will be
distributing Microsoft ISA server software on
the Network Engines platform in a 12-
month exclusive agreement throughout the
UK and Continental Europe.
Also, with corporate networks struggling to
cope with exponential increases in network
traffic, we began distribution of network
solutions in H1 to exploit this expanding
market. Our experience in running our own
national ethernet network in the UK
(‘LANnet’) means we can leverage our
existing skills to deliver data networking,
WAN/LAN, VPN, ethernet switching and
wireless networks. To date, we have signed
distribution agreements to sell Nortel and
Juniper network products across the UK and
Continental Europe.
Finally, in June 2004, we acquired the trade
and assets of NetConnect Training from
NetConnect Limited for cash consideration of
£900,000 and contingent consideration to a
maximum of £100,000. The business is fully
integrated into the Group and operates under
the InTechnology name. As a result, we are
the UK’s leading provider of authorised
storage, security and internet training, and
the world’s largest CheckPoint, Nokia and
Clearswift authorised training provider.
Harrogate Distribution Centre page 5
InTechnology plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
Trading and operating performance
We achieved encouraging revenue growth
across all divisions, with Group turnover
increasing to £283.5m this year (2004
restated: £221.9m) 
• £198.2m (2004 restated: £170.8m) for the
UK specialist distribution division 
• £63.2m (2004: £36.6m) for the Continental
Europe specialist distribution division
• £22.1m (2004: £14.5m) for the Managed
Services division
However, against a background of gross
margin erosion across the industry, our UK
storage margins fell by 0.9% and security
solutions margins by 2.4% year-on-year. In
the European market, we experienced a 2.5%
drop in margins but nonetheless won
increased market share.
Meeting customer expectations
In the first half of the year, we carried out a
full review of our customers’ requirements
and have now implemented changes to our
organisational structure in order to meet
these needs and maximise our sales
opportunities.
Customer sales focus on the following:
• Developing the resellers’ market
opportunities from the full InTechnology
range of products, solutions and services.
• Maximising margins by reducing the cost
of sale
• Accelerating the speed at which the sale
is closed by the reseller
In support of customer sales, we have Vendor
teams to maintain our speciality and expertise
around our core competencies in Storage,
Data Management, Security and Networks.
A sea change in the
marketplace
We are experiencing a sea change in the IT
sales channel in relation to the market for
services; traditional reseller business models
which relied solely on sales of hardware to
established end user customers, are no longer
sustainable. End users increasingly want to
outsource parts of their IT infrastructure to
save cost and enable them to focus on their
own core IT objectives. As a result, we are
experiencing strong interest from major
channel reseller partners in our managed
services portfolio and see this as further
confirmation that our strategy is sound.
Outlook
We are optimistic about prospects for our
business in the year ahead. We are confident
that sales volumes can increase to counter
the pressures on gross margin within our
Specialist Distribution division.
The strong performance of these established
businesses, together with increased
recurring revenue streams and exciting
initiatives in our Managed Services division,
give me confidence in our prospects for
future growth and profitability.
Peter Wilkinson
Chief Executive Officer
29 June 2005
0
UK Specialist
Distribution
Continental Europe
Specialist Distribution
Managed
Services
£200m
2004
£150m
£100m
£50m
2005
Turnover 
by Division
