 page 3
InTechnology plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006
Peter Wilkinson
Chief Executive Officer’s report
Overview
At the time of our interim results last year
we reported that significant efforts would
be taken in the second half of the year to
focus on the parts of the business that are
performing well and to take action to
correct those parts of the business where we
saw continued margin pressure. These
efforts were focused on three areas: 
1. To increase the trading profitability of
our Managed Services division and to
seek new opportunities for growth
2. To improve profitability in our UK
Specialist Distribution business 
3. To review the strategic options available
to us with our European Specialist
Distribution business
I am pleased to report that we achieved
encouraging results in all three areas,
resulting in a strong recovery in our
continuing operations in the second half of
the year, which reported operating profits
before amortisation of goodwill and
exceptional charges of £4.8m (first half year
of the year: £1.2m). Full year operating loss
from continuing operations was £0.9m
(2005: £0.4m loss) largely as a result of
exceptional costs of £2.4m (2005: £nil)
incurred to reduce our operating cost base.
Managed Services’ revenues grew 14 per
cent to £25.3m (2005: £22.1m) and we have
recently embarked on a number of exciting
new initiatives in this division. 
UK Specialist Distribution revenues declined
4 per cent to £189.7m (2005: £198.2m) but
the second half year’s performance was
encouraging, helped by cost cutting and
revenue growth.
The European Distribution companies were
sold on 31 March 2006 after growing
revenues but incurring operating losses as
margin pressures intensified. The resulting
cash inflow from the sale in the new fiscal
year will substantially reduce Group debt.
The pre-tax loss from discontinued European
operations accounted for £9.0m (2005:
£0.2m profit) of the Group pre-tax loss of
£12.1m (2005: £2.5m loss).
We exited the year in good shape, the reward
for spending a considerable amount of
management time on eliminating losses and
driving greater efficiencies. We have
established a platform of profitability and we
look forward to devoting all our management
effort to achieving our plans for future
revenue growth and increased profitability.
Managed Services
We were very pleased this year with the
continued growth and regular quarterly
operating profit before amortisation of
goodwill and exceptional items of the
Managed Services Division, a goal which we
have been targeting for a number of years.
Operating profit before amortisation of
goodwill and exceptional charges was £1.8m
(2005: £2.0m loss). Operating loss was £1.5m
(2005: £4.3m). At 31 March 2006 contracted
recurring annualised revenues had increased
by 23% to £28.3m (2005: £23.0m). 
However, it has become obvious over the
past few months that the Division has
suffered from our attempts to integrate it
alongside a distribution business. This has
resulted in the Division having a number of
separated departments, causing a lack of
efficiency, cohesion and vision.
0
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
£25m
£30m
£20m
£15m
£10m
£5m
Managed Services 
Turnover page 4
InTechnology plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006
Over the past 3 months this has been
addressed and we have made a number of
changes to rectify matters:
• Currently spread across three separate
buildings in Harrogate, by the end of
June 2006, all the head office Managed
Services employees will reside in a single
office adjacent to our Northern data
centre, also in Harrogate. 
• The sales force has been split into a new
business team and a customer care team.
This will allow us to better focus our
efforts on building a new client base
whilst also improving the relationship
and interaction with our existing
customers. We have invested in new 
CRM and ERP systems to support this
important part of the business.
• We have strengthened our position in the 
IP Voice market by creating a new sales
division of highly skilled and experienced
telephony experts and have enhanced 
our portfolio. This focus on an exciting,
rapidly-growing market creates
significant opportunities for us and we
will continue to look at expanding the
number of services which we offer.
It is encouraging that the Division now
achieves a gross margin value in excess of
80 per cent of that earned by UK Specialist
Distribution, and this year we expect it to
exceed that earned in Distribution. Moreover,
many direct operating costs such as network
and data centres are fixed and so higher
services revenues will continue to improve
operating margins. Our strategic objective of
the Division earning operating margin
percentages in excess of Distribution will be
achieved over the next few years. During the
year, we have achieved significant contract
wins including Galliford Try PLC, Barker &
Stonehouse, London Borough of Bromley,
Carl Bro Limited, Denton Wilde Sapte,
Devonshire Claims Services Holdings Limited,
Colemans CTTS, Carey Jones Architects and
The Financial Training Company (Kaplan Inc). 
We have had substantial success with 
our VBAK service and we have launched a
pay-as-you-go ILM (‘Information Lifecycle
Management’) service for archiving email
and file system data. 
This year we will be launching our new
Managed Exchange service, which offers
medium sized business an enterprise class 
e-mail service with 99.9% availability.
Specialist Distribution (UK)
Despite a difficult first half of the year, with
gross margins being squeezed by vendors
and customers, the second half year’s
performance was encouraging, helped by
cost cutting and revenue growth. 
Our relationship with IBM continues to grow
from strength to strength and our HP
business increased profitability in the second
half of the year. We were extremely
encouraged by the growth we achieved with
NetApp and Symantec (formerly Veritas). 
Our security business had an excellent year,
despite withdrawing from certain high
volume but low margin business.
We have created a new quote and
configuration team and a new internal sales
team, which have both proven to be
extremely successful in the second half of
the year and have given us great
encouragement for the future. 
Symantec Master Reseller 
of the Year 2005
CA EMEA Storage Partner 
of the Year 2005
Nortel Distributor of the Year 2005
World’s largest Check Point and
Nokia Training Provider 2005
Check Point’s Most Outstanding
Authorised Training Provider in
EMEA award 2005
Juniper Authorised Training Centre
of Excellence 2005
Achievements this year: page 5
InTechnology plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006
Specialist Distribution (Europe)
Our European Distribution businesses were
sold on 31 March 2006 and are shown as
discontinued operations in the consolidated
financial statements.
Turnover increased by 10 per cent to £69.8m
(2005: £63.2m), but reduced gross margins
resulted in operating losses before exceptional
reorganisation charges and amortisation of
goodwill. We had provided an exceptional
charge in the unaudited Interim results for the
period ended 30 September 2005 in order to
radically reduce on-going operating costs.
Shortly afterwards we were approached by
some of the European management team to
undertake a management buy-out, which
eventually failed. However, this prompted a
number of European trade enquiries resulting
in the sale of the subsidiaries to Magirus
International GmbH, a German distributor. The
provisional loss on disposal is estimated to be
£3.7m as the final consideration is dependent
on collection of accounts receivable and the
valuation of inventories and will be finalised
on 31 March 2007. However, the sale also
includes repayment of the inter-company
trade debt accounts of £15.8m, which had
continued to increase reflecting strong
revenue growth in Spain and Italy where long
trade credit periods are normal, whereas
security products were purchased in the UK
on monthly credit terms.
Debt
At 31 March 2006 cash balances and net 
debt respectively were £12.7m and £19.5m
(2005: £10.5m and £22.2m).
The cash inflow during the coming year from
the sale of the European subsidiaries is
approximately £19m and will eliminate much
of the Group’s debt. 
Board
On 23 May 2006, we appointed Mark Lower,
the Managing Director of our recently
launched Managed Voice Services division,
to the Board. He joins from next generation
telecommunications company Evoxus, where
he was CEO. Under his management, Evoxus,
a spin off from BT, grew turnover from £3m
to £20m in 3 years. He previously worked at
BT for 22 years, leaving the company as
Commercial & New Business Director of 
BT Wholesale. Full details of Board
appointments and resignations can be found
in the Management team and Directors’
report on pages 13 to 15.
Outlook
We ended the year in good shape, having
just completed a period when we have made
some difficult decisions. Our UK Specialist
Distribution Division benefited in the second
half of the year from cost reduction and
revenue growth and whilst market
conditions will remain tough there is still an
opportunity to increase profits and generate
positive cash flow.
We are very fortunate to have a Managed
Services Division with recurring revenues
where we can now focus more of our
efforts, selling high margin proprietary
services; we believe, as discussed previously,
that this Division will continue to be
successful and profitable in the year ahead.
Also, following the disposal of the loss-making
division, the Group’s senior management team
can now focus its attention on profit making. 
Peter Wilkinson
Chief Executive Officer
30 June 2006
