 4
JOB 4484 — PROOF PFP — 02.07.2003
Chief Executive’s Review
Intelek’s chosen strategy is to take advantage of niche opportunities in the global communications and aerospace markets.
Over the past two years these two markets have both suffered substantially from the results of a global downturn the
adverse effects of which have been felt by all companies, including our own customers, operating in these markets. 
During January 2003, further evidence of the fragility of the mobile telecommunications infrastructure market was
experienced by Labtech, whose major customers significantly reduced their expectations for the fourth quarter of our
financial year. In addition, Paradise Datacom in the USA and Pascall continued to experience delays in securing a number
of high value contracts. The combination of both of these events resulted in the issue of a Trading Statement on 7 February
2003. Since then, Paradise Datacom and Pascall have signed up certain of these delayed contracts which will largely
benefit the year to 31 March 2004. 
Nevertheless, I am pleased to be able to report that a portion of this late surge in order activity was reflected in the March
figures with the result that the Group’s headline profit before tax (i.e. before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items) of
£1.72 million (2002: £2.43 million) for the year ended 31 March 2003 exceeded current market forecasts.
Paradise Datacom and CML increased their market shares and improved their performance in the second half of the
financial year. All companies were profitable at the year end as they had already taken the necessary steps at an early stage
to ensure that this was the case. Despite the reduction in profit for the year, there were still a number of key events in the
past twelve months which should prove significant to the Group’s future performance:
•
The successful transfer during our first quarter of the VSAT product line acquired from Sierra Satcom in February 2002
laid the foundation for strong growth in Paradise Datacom’s US output in the final quarter, culminating with deliveries in
excess of $2.3 million (£1.4 million) in March 2003. The successful integration of this product line resulted in the $5
million (£3 million) contract extension with a leading supplier of satellite communications systems, announced to the
market on 18 February 2003. 
•
The launch of the enhanced range of Paradise Datacom satellite modems enabled the UK company to achieve record
levels of order intake in December 2002. This record was then exceeded by 50% in February 2003. This latter level of
order intake was received in time to help the UK company achieve its highest level of monthly output in March 2003
when sales exceeded £1 million for the first time in the history of the company.
•
The contract placement with Pascall Electronics for power supplies for the next generation of in-flight entertainment
systems, worth approximately $3.7 million (£2.3 million) over the next eighteen months and announced to the market
on 24 February 2003, will provide a good level of base business for Pascall’s successful Power Supply Group.
•
Through attention to customer service and cost control, CML has continued to win significant new business and gain
market share in the commercial aircraft and military helicopter markets. The latest examples of this were contract wins
in May from Airbus UK and a large US aircraft manufacturer, totalling in excess of £3.5 million of deliveries over the
next 3 years. The Airbus contract is for the supply of gear ribs for the wings for single aisle aircraft and side stays for
the wings for the long-range aircraft.
•
Labtech’s highly respected technology and flexible product offering has continued to result in the broadening of the
company’s customer base, despite the sudden and sharp final quarter downturn in activity for their mobile
telecommunications infrastructure customers.
Ian Brodie 5
INTELEK Report and Accounts 2003
JOB 4484 — PROOF PFP — 02.07.2003
Paradise Datacom designs and manufactures
satellite modems, transceivers, block up-converters
(BUCs), solid state power amplifiers (SSPAs), low
noise amplifiers (LNAs) and associated equipment for
the terrestrial segment of the satellite
communications market.
In addition to the individual products, the increase in
breadth of the product line now offers customers the
possibility of purchasing total electronic package
solutions for many of their needs. This ability to offer
the full range of related products, manufactured by a
single company, is uncommon in our industry.
Paradise Datacom is also one
of a very few commercial
satellite earth station
equipment manufacturers with
manufacturing and support
facilities in both Europe and
North America. This ability to
manufacture and offer support
in two continents differentiates
the company as a supplier of
satellite communications
equipment.
The year to 31 March 2003 was both challenging and
eventful for Paradise Datacom on both sides of the
Atlantic. During the year, the US operation transferred
and integrated the VSAT product line, acquired from
Sierra Satcom at the end of the previous year, to its
Boalsburg Pennsylvania facility. This required some
extraordinary effort but now the benefits are evident with
significant monthly turnover from the acquired product
line, now under the Paradise Datacom brand name.
With product development expenditure running at 9.8%
of sales, development programmes have continued
apace at both Paradise locations, resulting in a number
of new product introductions to broaden our offering
during the year. The new Internet Modems have been
well received by the customer base and allow
exceptional performance of Internet traffic over satellite
links. A variety of new SSPA products have also been
completed, including smaller rack mountable units and
these, together with new outdoor amplifiers, are keeping
the company at the leading edge of SSPA technology.
Finally, new block up-converter products have been
added to the acquired VSAT product line. Engineering
and management effort is also being channelled towards
reducing costs across all product groups.
Despite the continued volatility in the
telecommunications arena and a general poor economic
climate, Paradise Datacom has returned a record year for
order acquisition and sales, with operating profit
increasing by 48% to £2.6 million.
The company has significantly broadened its product
range, which in turn has opened up new markets, and
has continued to expand its sales and distribution
channels. A number of major contracts have been won
by Paradise Datacom in the latter half of 2002/03
indicating that prospects for the coming year continue to
be encouraging, despite market conditions badly
affecting some of the other companies in our industry. 
Paradise Datacom Sales £16.0m (2002: £11.2m)
Operating Profit £2.6m (2002: £1.7m)
Nigel Mills
Managing Director
Paradise Datacom UK
James P Dixon
President 
Paradise Datacom USA
A Paradise Datacom technician initiating the
automatic test sequence for 40 modems
Left: 
Rack demonstrating some
of the Paradise Datacom
range of modems,
transceivers and amplifiers 6
JOB 4484 — PROOF PFP — 02.07.2003
Labtech are world leaders in advanced microwave
circuit processing technology and MMIC
(Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuit)
packaging and multi-chip interconnect. Microwave
circuit boards incorporating precision machining
are manufactured in prototype and high volumes for
major telecommunications, military, automotive and
space system customers worldwide. These circuits
are deployed in wireless telecommunications
networks, broadband data access systems,
microwave automotive control systems, radar and
satellite applications.
Labtech’s technology is based on processing high
performance PTFE microwave substrates with
plated through holes. Circuits can be bonded
together in a multilayer construction and include
machined metal backing for high frequency
applications such as broadband digital radio links
and microwave power amplifiers.
Labtech’s “Chip & Wire” assembly clean room
provides fully assembled and packaged MMIC
circuits which enable very high levels of integration
to be achieved while utilising Labtech’s cost-
effective manufacturing techniques.
The combination of precision circuit machining,
advanced automatic chemical processing and
MMIC packaging and assembly gives Labtech a
total capability which is unequalled in the Global
microwave printed circuit board market.
The year to March 2003 has seen Labtech’s sales grow
by 2% despite another challenging and turbulent year
for the telecommunications equipment market. Trading
levels for the first six months of the year were ahead of
budget, but the last quarter saw a dramatic downturn
in orders from its established customers in the wireless
telecommunications infrastructure sector who have
again been suffering from cutbacks in their own
customer investment programmes. In view of these
difficult trading conditions, it was necessary for
Labtech to reduce its cost base accordingly with a
reduction of 20% in the employee base in the last
quarter. Despite a very difficult final three months,
Labtech was profitable for the year but at a reduced
level from the previous year.
Significant orders were received towards the end of the
financial year for advanced microwave circuits for use
in the European military and space satellite markets.
This work extends through 2003 and partly reduces
Labtech’s exposure to the presently fickle
telecommunications market.
Labtech has acknowledged the ongoing volatility of its
main markets by becoming a leaner and more flexible
business which can respond to very short lead-time
requirements. The emphasis now is to address the
higher value product end of these markets which will
probably result in lower total sales in the coming year
but profitability should improve.
Labtech Sales £10.4m (2002: £10.2m)
Operating Profit £0.4m (2002: £0.8m)
“Chip & Wire” assembly in process Fully automated chemical processing plant 
at Labtech’s facility in Presteigne, Wales
Brian Mazonas
Managing Director 7
INTELEK Report and Accounts 2003
JOB 4484 — PROOF PFP — 02.07.2003
Pascall Electronics’ radio frequency, microwave and
power conversion skills are applied to the design and
manufacture of a broad range of specialised
components and sub-systems for the
communications, avionics and defence markets.
Applications include electronic intelligence, counter
measures, radar, in-flight entertainment systems,
instrumentation and navigational aids.
In the in-flight entertainment sector Pascall is one of
only two companies supplying significant volumes of
custom power supplies specifically designed to serve
the needs of today’s technically advanced passenger
entertainment and information systems. Pascall also
provides advanced power supplies for bespoke
telecommunications and defence applications.
Pascall is a leading supplier of IF Signal Processing
components and bespoke RF and Microwave sub-
systems for defence, commercial and
telecommunications applications. Recent
investments in advanced technology and
manufacturing techniques have expanded the
product portfolio further to embrace higher
frequencies.
Pascall has been able to remain profitable in the most
demanding of market conditions. Its major market, the
US, has been depressed; the world’s airlines, with few
exceptions, have been experiencing financial problems
such that investment in their ‘in-flight entertainment
systems’ has been pared back; terrorism and war have,
in the short term, directed military funds from
development to operational programmes.
Due to a change in the dynamics of the satellite sector
towards smaller earth stations and a cutback in capital
expenditure programmes by major telecommunications
companies, the Board decided to close Pascall’s satellite
monitoring division. This was completed in January
2003. Pascall’s operating profit of £0.2 million for the
year was after absorbing £0.4 million of operating losses
in this division.
Pascall continues to enjoy preferred supplier status with
most of its key customers who expect and receive
innovative solutions to their requirements. Indeed,
Pascall has recently received a coveted award from its
largest customer, Rockwell Collins of the USA, as a top
supplier. Pascall is a flexible business that has
demonstrated its ability to remain profitable under some
extreme conditions. Despite the uncertain world in which
we operate, the outlook for the current financial year
gives some grounds for quiet optimism. 
Pascall Electronics Sales £7.1m (2002: £9.2m)
Operating Profit £0.2m (2002: £1.0m)
Pascall’s “top supplier” award 
from Rockwell Collins
The automated PCB assembly facility 
at Pascall’s premises in Ryde, Isle of Wight
Alan Wainwright
Managing Director 8
JOB 4484 — PROOF PFP — 02.07.2003
CML Group provides a total aerostructures solution,
from the supply of individual machined or composite
components through to complete sub-assemblies
and kits of parts. 
The company has its roots in precision machining for
the aerospace industry and operates from facilities
with a manufacturing area of 120,000 square feet. The
comprehensive range of capabilities includes
precision machining, composite and sheet detail
manufacture and surface treatments of ferrous and
non-ferrous materials. Specialist 5-axis machining of
complex components from both hard and soft
aerospace materials enables CML to supply major
structural assemblies. Kits and completed
assemblies are supplied in a finished state to
customers after passing through CML’s
comprehensive in-house treatments facility.
CML enjoys preferred supplier status to several
OEM’s and has an active continuous improvement
programme which is focused on maintaining and
improving all aspects of quality, cost and delivery.
The company has obtained the relevant aerospace
approvals, including those from CAA, Airbus, BAE
Systems, Agusta Westland and Raytheon.
The year to March 2003 has seen a 21% reduction in
CML’s turnover due to the continuing downturn in the
aerospace industry. As a result of restructuring carried
out last year to realign staffing levels and overheads with
projected sales, CML completed the year in profit and
cash positive. 
The strategy for the coming year is to continue to
consolidate CML, to strengthen its position in the
marketplace as a strategic supplier of precision
components and to build on the increase in sales last
year for spares and repairs for Composite and Sheet
Detail components. 
Towards the end of the year, CML made a significant
investment in two new high-speed 5-axis machining
centres funded by operating leases. The introduction of
this state-of-the-art machining technology will improve
production efficiency, whilst increasing capability and
capacity to fulfil new contracts gained this year from
Airbus UK. These new three-year programmes are
expected to be in volume manufacture by the end of July
2003, at which time Airbus UK will be CML’s largest
customer.
The ongoing commitment to Investors in People and the
Continuous Improvement Programme is expected to
further improve productivity and increase the overall
competitiveness of CML. Nevertheless, in spite of
winning new aircraft and helicopter programmes, CML is
very much tied to the overall health of the global
aerospace market, which itself is subject to the
curtailment of terrorism and control of the SARS virus.
Despite these current setbacks, the long-term growth
projection for the sector is 5% per annum and our
largest customer, Airbus, is well positioned to be a major
beneficiary from this uplift.
CML Group Limited Sales £8.1m (2002: £10.2m)
Operating Profit £0.1m (2002: £0.2m)
Airbus A340 side stay in manufacture
on new 5-axis machining centre
Wing rib for Airbus A340 Geoff Stewart
Managing Director 9
INTELEK Report and Accounts 2003
JOB 4484 — PROOF PFP — 02.07.2003
New products/technologies (examples)
Outlook
Our satellite communications companies have benefited from the strategy of developing a more complete product portfolio through
internal development and acquisition. This, combined with the extension of our sales coverage into parts of the world which have
not historically been addressed, together with new business in the government and military sector should help us to offset the
current weakness in the global economy. There seems to be no immediate signs of any improvement in the mobile telephones
infrastructure market and the bottoming out of the aerospace market could prove to be very fragile in the light of the effect of SARS
on air traffic in the Far East. 
As a Group we are not planning for any assistance from the resumption of growth in our major markets. I am, however, pleased
with the ability of our companies to increase market share in these difficult times and expect to see continued good performance
from Paradise Datacom and a recovery at CML. Pascall and Labtech are expected to remain stable but are well positioned for the
elusive recovery in the aerospace and telecommunications markets in 2004 and beyond.
Like many other defined benefit pension schemes, the Group’s FRS17 pension deficit has widened over the past twelve months
and stood at £9.7 million net of tax at 31 March 2003 (2002: £5.6 million). As reported at the Interims, action has been taken to help
resolve this situation with the transfer of employees in the defined benefit section to the defined contribution section of the scheme
on 1 October 2002, after due consultation with staff. In addition, supplementary cash contributions of £1 million were made during
the year. The Board is working with advisers to manage future cash contributions to the Scheme to levels consistent with the
requirements of the Scheme and the long-term interests of your Group.
On balance, I am encouraged by the recent contract wins at the end of last year and at the beginning of this financial year.
Ian D Brodie
Chief Executive
9 June 2003
CML’s new side stay contract for the Airbus A340 —
deliveries commence June ’03
MMIC “drop-in” package technology at Labtech
New Ku and C band block upconverters from
Paradise Datacom
Pascall’s new in-flight power supply for audio and
video on demand — deliveries commence May ’03
