 3
INTELEK Report and Accounts 2003
JOB 4484 — PROOF PFP — 02.07.2003
Chairman’s Statement
Dividend
Although the Board remains confident of the potential of the
Group we believe it prudent that the final dividend for this year be
tempered by these trading results and the increasing cash
commitment to reduce the Pension Fund deficit. Your Board of
Directors is therefore recommending a reduced final dividend of
0.10p (2002: 0.66p) per Ordinary share. This will make a total
dividend for the year of 0.34p (2002: 0.90p) which is covered 4
times by headline earnings per share. If approved, this final
dividend will be paid on 1 October 2003 to shareholders on the
register at close of business on 5 September 2003.
Employees
The skills and dedication of our employees are key to the ongoing
success of the Group, and I would once again like to record my
thanks to them for their contributions during the year.
Prospects
We continue to face challenging market conditions but will take
whatever actions are necessary to build on the success of the
recent contract wins. Headline pre-tax profit in the first two
months of the current year is in line with the same period last year
on sales marginally down but with order input over 10% ahead.
We expect the outcome for the year as a whole to be satisfactory.
Roger B Fletcher
Chairman
9 June 2003
The year to 31 March 2003 proved to be challenging for your
Group. Whilst we gained market share in two of the main markets
in which we operate, mobile telecommunications infrastructure
and aerospace, our sales and profits from these sectors declined
as a result of overall market reduction. The success of our
strategy of moving further into the satellite communications
sector has been demonstrated by the substantial growth in sales
and profits from Paradise Datacom. However, this was insufficient
to make up for the profit shortfall in the mobile
telecommunications infrastructure and aerospace sectors. 
Management throughout the Group has been pro-active in seeking
improvements in performance across our businesses. Actions
taken during the year include the closure of a non-profitable
division, continued cost control measures, increased investment in
research and development and the strengthening of our sales
capability. Group sales overall increased to £41.6 million (2002:
£40.7 million) and operating profit on continuing operations before
amortisation of goodwill reduced by 12% to £2.9 million (2002:
£3.3 million). Headline earnings per share, however, declined by
41% to 1.41p (2002: 2.37p) mainly as a result of losses on
discontinued operations, a higher effective rate of tax and an
increase in the weighted average number of shares in issue.
Net debt at the year end stood at £9.3 million, an increase of £1.2
million from last year’s figure of £8.1 million. This increase was
accounted for in the main by the cash and loan note elements of
the final deferred consideration payment of £1.2 million settled in
October 2002 in respect of the Paradise Datacom acquisition,
and the additional payment of £1 million towards the Pension
Fund deficit.
Right: 
Paradise Datacom’s range of
equipment shown here in a
‘flyaway’ configuration typically
used for war zone news reports
Roger Fletcher
