 3
INTELEK Report and Accounts 2004
Chairman’s Statement
disagreements between Roger and the remainder of the Board
over certain aspects of the Group’s direction and strategy, I would
nevertheless like to pay tribute to Roger for his chairmanship of
the Company over the last five years.
In addition, I would like to record my thanks to all our employees
whose skill and dedication were key to last year’s performance
and are fundamental to the future of your Group.
Prospects
Our businesses operate in a global market where activity levels
are influenced by external factors such as a sudden increase in oil
prices and a weakening in the US dollar exchange rate. With the
visibility that we have, we are encouraged by early signs of
improving conditions in both the aerospace and mobile
telecommunications infrastructure markets. However, we must
take a cautious view of the first half, especially as year-on-year
we do not expect to repeat the one-off benefit of Paradise
Datacom’s £1 million homeland security contract. For the year as
a whole, we expect to continue to keep costs and cash flow
under control and to target opportunities to expand market share.
Paradise Datacom should begin to benefit in the latter part of the
year from the continued investment in new product development.
During 2004/05, Intelek will continue to work hard to meet the
challenges of its markets. We anticipate the continuing evolution
of our businesses with major structural changes taking place in
our markets and, as necessary, within our companies.
Nevertheless, we are emerging with a stronger, more focused and
updated product offering and expect to make steady progress
overall.
Nigel L Mills
Chairman
7 June 2004
In the year to 31 March 2004 the Group continued to make
encouraging progress on a number of fronts.
Group sales were 6% lower than the prior year, primarily caused
by Labtech’s planned withdrawal from low complexity, high
volume microwave circuit boards. Margins, as a consequence,
improved and headline profit before tax, amortisation of goodwill
and exceptional items increased by 5% to £1.8 million (2003: £1.7
million). This increase in profit was after absorbing a £0.6 million
negative US dollar exchange effect. The exceptional items related
to the book loss of £0.3 million incurred on the sale and
leaseback of the CML property. Headline earnings per share
moved ahead strongly by 23% to 1.74p per share (2003: 1.41p
per share) with the Group benefiting from steps taken to improve
our tax position in the USA.
I am also pleased to report that the Group’s total borrowings
reduced sharply in the year to £6.6 million (2003: £9.3 million),
helped by a Group-wide inventory reduction programme which
yielded £1.4 million and by the £1.5 million net proceeds from the
sale and leaseback of property. This reduction in borrowings was
after making a £1.3 million contribution towards the deficit of the
Defined Benefit Pension Scheme which was closed for future
service in September 2002. It is also pleasing to note that the
FRS 17 deficit has reduced during the year by 10%, i.e. £1.4
million.
Dividend
In the light of these results, the Board is recommending an
increased final dividend of 0.24p (2003: 0.10p) per Ordinary share,
which will make a total dividend for the year of 0.36p, an increase
of 6% on the 2003 dividend of 0.34p.
If approved, this final dividend will be paid on 1 October 2004 to
shareholders on the register at close of business on 3 September
2004.
Strategy
It is the Group’s agreed strategy to dispose of non-core assets at
prices which give fair strategic value to shareholders as
demonstrated by the sale and leaseback of property. We will also
focus our resources on niche areas of wireless communications,
particularly satcoms, via increased market penetration, product
development and acquisition.
We shall continue to pursue structural change in our operations,
where necessary, as their markets evolve. In the case of CML, we
are presently reviewing opportunities to broaden their aerospace
offering, possibly involving joint ventures or alliances.
People
On 1 April 2004 Jim Dixon stepped down as an Executive
Director of the Group and as President of Paradise Datacom in
the USA to devote more time to his other interests. Jim was one
of the two partners in Paradise Datacom and contributed
significantly in the development of that business.
It was announced on 28 May 2004 that our Chairman, Roger
Fletcher, had left the Board. Whilst latterly there were some
