 4
Chief Executive’s Review
The Group’s headline profit before tax of £1.8 million was 5% higher than the previous year. Headline earnings per share at
1.74p recorded an increase of 23% over last year as a result of benefits gained from efficient USA tax planning. 
This was achieved despite sales being 6% lower than last year. This reduction in sales was as a consequence of Labtech’s
realignment towards the more complex, higher margin but lower volume circuit boards. Margin levels improved and assisted
significantly in helping to reduce the borrowings to £6.6 million (2003: £9.3 million), a reduction of 28%. The reduction of
£1.4 million in inventory and the net proceeds of £1.5 million from sale and leaseback of property also made a significant
contribution to this encouraging reduction in borrowings. This was also after making a further £1.3 million payment into the
defined benefit pension scheme, closed in September 2002 for future service accrual.
In terms of our principal markets, satellite communications benefited in the first six months from one-off contracts in the
government sector, particularly US military and homeland security, while the commercial end of the satcoms business
remained at similar levels to the prior year. The mobile phone infrastructure market started to show some signs of
improvement at the end of our first quarter from a particularly low base. I am pleased to report that this progress continued
throughout the remaining nine months of the year and, indeed, picked up further in the final quarter. Activity levels in the
aerospace industry were affected in our third quarter by de-stocking although our aerospace subsidiary, CML, offset the
effect of this in the full year by increasing its market share.
The weakness of the dollar significantly impacted the profitability for the year. Twenty-five per cent of the Group’s turnover
is generated by our subsidiary in the USA, and a further 15% is priced from the UK in dollars, the vast majority of which is
invoiced by our power supply company, Pascall Electronics, and sold forward at order receipt to combat currency
exposure. The adverse profit effect of the dollar movement year on year, net of any reduced cost of materials procured in
dollars, amounted to £0.6 million. 5
INTELEK Report and Accounts 2004
Paradise Datacom designs and manufactures
satellite modems, transceivers, block up-converters,
solid state power amplifiers, low noise amplifiers and
associated equipment for the terrestrial segment of
the satellite communications market.
In addition to the individual products, Paradise
Datacom offers customers the possibility of
purchasing total electronic package solutions for
many of their needs. The ability to offer the full range
of related products, manufactured by a single
company, is uncommon in our industry.
Paradise Datacom is also one of a very few
commercial satellite earth station equipment
manufacturers with manufacturing and support
facilities in both Europe and North America. This
ability to manufacture and offer support in two
continents differentiates the company as a supplier
of satellite communications equipment.
Paradise Datacom has two operations, one based in
Essex, UK, and one in Pennsylvania, USA. The USA
company recorded record results in 2003/04 although
these were reduced by £150k in sterling terms from the
weakening of the dollar exchange rate. Government
spending, in particular the USA, has remained strong in
2003/04, as witnessed by our homeland security
contract of £1.0 million. Sales to Russia also performed
strongly, growing by 350% to £1.1 million. Although
modem sales increased by 28% in the USA, they were
17% lower in the UK where the late surge of £0.7 million
in the fourth quarter of 2002/03 relating to supplies for
military and media purposes in the Middle East was not
repeated. As a consequence of this changing pattern of
sales, the weakening US dollar and increased spend on
R&D, overall operating profit at Paradise Datacom
reduced to £2.0 million but still some 13% of sales.
Following Jim Dixon’s resignation as President of the
American operation, we have combined the two Paradise
Datacom organisations under one Chief Executive, John
Restivo, who joined the Group in September 2003. John
Restivo previously held senior executive positions with
Viasat Inc. and one of our largest modem competitors,
Radyne/Comstream of the USA. This move allows
Paradise Datacom to pursue more effectively the
markets and customers which are common to both
operations. This reorganisation is expected to have, in
the medium term, positive financial results, especially in
our amplifier product lines which traditionally had limited
exposure to our European customer base. 
We have made, and will continue to make, changes to
allow the company to focus more effectively on
product/market development and, in particular, on the
more lucrative sectors of the power amplifier range and
on the new higher data rate modem.
Research and Development remains a core part of
Paradise’s Datacom’s growth strategy, representing 10%
of sales. We have recently released additional higher
power solid state amplifiers, resulting in our extended
product range being one of the most comprehensive and
compact lines in the industry. These product releases are
expanding our addressable market allowing us to
penetrate areas traditionally dominated by competing
technologies. We will continue to review opportunities for
acquiring additional skills and products to broaden the
specialist base of the Paradise Datacom activities and
invest in the long-term future of the Group.
Satellite Communications:
Paradise Datacom
Sales £15.5m (2003: £16.0m)
Operating Profit £1.99m (2003: £2.56m)
A selection from Paradise
Datacom’s range of products
A technician tuning a high
power amplifier module
The high power amplifier design team in
Pennsylvania, USA 6
Labtech are one of the world leaders in advanced
microwave printed circuit processing technology
and MMIC (Monolithic Microwave Integrated
Circuit) packaging and multi-chip interconnect.
Microwave circuit boards, incorporating precision
machining, are manufactured in prototype and high
volumes for major telecommunications, military and
space system customers worldwide. These circuits
are deployed in wireless telecommunications
networks, radar and ground and flight-based
satellite applications.
Labtech’s technology is based on processing high
performance PTFE microwave substrates with
plated through holes. Circuits can be bonded
together in a multi-layer construction and include
machined metal backing for high frequency
applications such as broadband digital radio links
and microwave power amplifiers.
Labtech’s “Chip & Wire” assembly clean room
provides fully assembled and packaged MMIC
circuits which enable very high levels of integration
to be achieved while utilising Labtech’s cost-
effective manufacturing techniques.
The combination of precision circuit machining,
now including laser technology, advanced
automatic chemical processing and MMIC
packaging and assembly gives Labtech a total
capability unequalled in the global microwave
printed circuit board market.
Operating profit nearly doubled to £0.82 million,
notwithstanding the predicted reduction in Labtech’s
sales which fell by 24%. This reduction in sales was as
a consequence of the successful realignment of
Labtech towards higher value added circuit boards.
Trading levels in the first six months of the year were
adversely affected by a depressed telecommunication
equipment market. However, this market improved
consistently throughout the second half enabling
Labtech to exceed its budget profit for the year.
Profitability was also enhanced by maintaining a lean
cost base and a more diverse product mix which
included more military and space activity than in
previous years.
A key investment made during the year was in laser
profiling equipment which enables Labtech to achieve
substantially increased levels of manufacturing
precision on its higher value circuits. This new
capability further differentiates Labtech from many of
its competitors and has also opened up new product
opportunities. 
Following the recent improvements in the
telecommunications equipment market, Labtech
anticipates this sector of its business will provide more
consistent growth through the coming year. Significant
sales and marketing effort was directed at the military
and satcom markets during last year and resulted in
increased sales in the second half. Labtech’s strategy
to concentrate on higher value products will be
enhanced during the coming year by the recruitment of
a full-time Sales Manager based in the USA.
Microwave Circuits: 
Labtech
Sales £7.9m (2003: £10.4m)
Operating Profit £0.82m (2003: £0.46m)
Assembled MMIC chip under high magnification New laser profiling machine for
high specification circuits
A mobile telephone base station
incorporating Labtech’s metal-backed
microwave circuit board 7
INTELEK Report and Accounts 2004
Pascall Electronics’ power conversion and radio
frequency skills are applied to the design and
manufacture of a broad range of power converters,
RF (radio frequency) components and sub-systems
for avionics, telecommunications, defence and other
high performance markets. Application areas include
mission computers, electronic intelligence, in-flight
entertainment systems, radar avionics
instrumentation and navigational aids.
In the Power Conversion field, Pascall has built on its
already significant presence in the in-flight
entertainment sector by developing new products for
flight data handling and other flight support systems
in the civil avionics field. Pascall is also a provider of
high performance power converters for defence and
other extreme environment applications. Pascall is
investing in new technology to provide significant
increases in power density to meet today’s and the
next decade’s requirements.
Pascall is a leading supplier of signal processing
components, broadband amplifiers and bespoke RF
and microwave sub-systems for defence,
communications, air traffic control and weather radar
applications. Recent developments have seen the
product portfolio expand to encompass higher
frequencies and high stability oscillator products.
The business environment in which Pascall operates
continues to be difficult and, with the closure of the
satellite monitoring division last year, sales dropped by
3% to £6.9 million. Our exports to the USA, which
account for 80% of turnover, have been affected by the
weakness of the US dollar against sterling and this has
continued to impact our margins. The year on year fall in
our average hedged dollar rate, from $1.45/£ to $1.60/£,
resulted in a net reduction in operating profit of £0.5
million. Nevertheless, the expected increase in activity in
the second half emerged, particularly from in-flight
entertainment power supplies, and resulted in an
operating profit of £0.3 million in the second half, a
considerable improvement over the first half break-even
position. 
Investment in both customer specific and private venture
product developments has continued at a high level.
Improvements in new product introduction procedures
have aided the speed of delivery of quality designs to
key customers. Once again, Pascall has received a top
supplier award from its largest customer, Rockwell
Collins of the USA.
We remain optimistic about the coming year in terms of
our technology and programmes although the timing of
deliveries will be dependent on the acceptance of our
customer’s new in-flight entertainment system and the
phasing of deliveries on the new military programmes.
Power Supplies and RF Electronics:
Pascall Electronics
Sales £6.9m (2003: £7.1m*)
Operating Profit £0.34m (2003: £0.27m*)
* incorporates discontinued satellite monitoring business
Alignment of a Frequency
Discriminator
New FET Switch for inclusion in military and high grade
electronic systems, where reliable, fast switching of
signals is required
Pascall’s new in-flight power
supply for audio and video on
demand 8
CML Group provides a total aerostructures solution,
from the supply of individual machined or composite
components through to complete sub-assemblies
and kits of parts.
The company has its roots in precision machining for
the aerospace industry and operates from facilities
with a manufacturing area of 120,000 square feet. The
comprehensive range of capabilities includes
precision machining, composite and sheet detail
manufacture and surface treatments of ferrous and
non-ferrous materials. Specialist 5-axis machining of
complex components from both hard and soft
aerospace materials enables CML to supply major
structural assemblies. Kits and completed
assemblies are supplied in a finished state to
customers after passing through CML’s
comprehensive in-house treatments facility.
CML enjoys preferred supplier status to several
OEMs and has an active continuous improvement
programme which is focused on maintaining and
improving all aspects of quality, cost and delivery.
The company has obtained the relevant aerospace
approvals, including those from CAA, Airbus, BAe
Systems, Agusta Westland and Raytheon.
The year to March 2004 has seen a 6% increase in
CML’s turnover, reflecting an increase in their share of a
recovering market even with some considerable
destocking by CML’s major customer in our third quarter.
A combination of productivity improvements and tight
control of overheads has seen operating profit, before
release of contract termination provisions, increase by
£0.18 million and, together with careful management of
stock levels, enabled the company to maintain its cash
positive position.
The strategy for the coming year is to continue to
consolidate CML Group, to strengthen its position in the
marketplace as a strategic supplier of precision
components and to develop further opportunities for the
supply of composite details and assemblies.
During the next 12 months, we intend to expand our
capacity and capability through strategic alliances to
enable us to meet our customers’ requirements for a
supplier to work in partnership providing total design,
manufacture and project management solutions.
Aerostructures: 
CML Group 
Sales £8.6m (2003: £8.1m)
Operating Profit £0.24m (2003: £0.22m)
Airbus Gear Rib in final test Lynx Helicopter Airbus A318
Managing Director 9
INTELEK Report and Accounts 2004
Outlook
In the satellite communications area, we do not expect to see the benefit in the first six months this year of any
homeland security contract. Modem sales are expected to remain level until the launch of the next generation product
due in 2005. While there is no sign of any major increase in commercial satcoms, we do expect, for the full year, our
power amplifiers to show growth in the USA with increased market penetration elsewhere, offsetting a reduction in the
level of sales of block-up converters which are facing increased, low price, competition from the Far East. As a
consequence, we are reviewing each product line and refocusing engineering on to the more lucrative sectors of the
power amplifier range. Some product lines may be cut back, others enhanced. John Restivo’s appointment as Paradise
Datacom’s new global CEO brings a fresh view with ambition for accelerated growth.
Following the steady growth experienced in the final nine months of our last financial year, investment in mobile
telephone infrastructure is expected to grow in line with the increasing level of interest in the capability of the next
generation of mobile phones.
As regards aerospace, the programmes supplied by CML appear to be showing signs of encouraging progress. Overall,
the aerospace supply industry in the UK should benefit from the build-up of activity in the Airbus A380 programme and
also the new military programmes, particularly the A400M.
Of all our companies, Pascall Electronics has the longest visibility in their order book. During May 2004, Pascall received
a significant follow-on contract from Rockwell Collins of the USA. This secures continuous production until late 2005 of a
range of power supply units for Rockwell Collins’ in-flight entertainment system. In December 2003, Pascall also
received a £1m contract for delivery over 4 years from end 2004 of a new low voltage power supply for the cockpit
upgrade of the Tornado GR 4 aircraft. These orders, particularly the Rockwell Collins’ order, will provide an encouraging
platform for Pascall in the current year. Order book at the end of May 2004 amounted to £3.7 million (May 2003: £2.8
million).
It is our intention in 2004/05 to expand our geographic activities with Paradise Datacom opening an office in the Far East
and Labtech having, for the first time, a full-time sales person based in the USA. In addition, the next generation modem
development programme will continue to have the highest priority with an increasing level of resource being applied to
the broadening of our satcom amplifier line. CML will seek additional opportunities to allow it to continue to expand its
market share while considering potential areas for developing its service offering through partnerships and alliances.
While most of our major markets are showing some signs of improvement, we are still in the early days of recovery in
aerospace and wireless communications infrastructure. 
Ian D Brodie
Chief Executive
7 June 2004
