 3
INTELEK Report and Accounts 2005
Chairman’s Statement
dividend for the year to 0.36 pence
(2004: 0.36 pence). If approved, this
final dividend will be paid on
30 September 2005, to shareholders
on the register at close of business
on 2 September 2005.
Strategy
Our strategy remains firm and our
performance on track. In last year’s
Chairman’s Statement, I explained
that we intended to dispose of non-
core assets at prices which give fair
strategic value to shareholders and
to focus our resources on niche
areas of microwave and wireless
communications through increased
market penetration, product development and acquisition. During
the past twelve months we have already put into place three
initial, but fundamental, parts of that strategy, namely: the
disposal of our power supply company, Pascall Electronics; the
acquisition, for Labtech, of the assets of Filtronic Components at
Milton Keynes; and the product launch of Paradise Datacom’s
exciting new generation of high data rate modems.
We shall continue to seek vigorously further means of pursuing
our declared strategy in the next 12 months.
People
We were very pleased to announce the appointment of David
Bramwell as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 October
2004. David’s experience has already proved to be very beneficial
to the Group on a broad front.
As ever, the progress made during the year is largely down to our
employees’ dedicated commitment, skill and expertise. I would
like to pass on to all employees my sincere thanks.
Prospects
In the past year we have seen an encouraging performance in
both Paradise Datacom and Labtech. Their markets are holding
up well, with satellite communications benefiting from the
continued growth of investment by the government sector. Both
companies have recently received the benefit of new products: in
Labtech’s case by acquisition, and in Paradise’s case by the
launch, after two years in development, of their new high data
rate modem and the broadening of amplifier power levels and
frequency ranges. I am confident that, after an initial market
acceptance period, our new products will find favour in the
marketplace and will lead to encouraging growth over the next 12
months. On the aerospace side, CML had an excellent final
quarter and will benefit from the increased production levels on
their main programmes.
To conclude, we remain committed to our strategy and expect to
see an overall improvement in performance for the year to March
2006.
Nigel L Mills
Chairman
6 June 2005
I am pleased to report that Intelek made substantial progress
during the year. In line with our stated strategy, we completed on
the sale of a non-core business, introduced several new products
at our satellite communications company and purchased a
components product line to broaden the base of our microwave
circuits business.
Operating profits from our continuing businesses increased
significantly in 2004/05 on sales which were 1.4% lower than the
previous year. Growth at Labtech and in Paradise Datacom’s high
power amplifiers, together with continuing recovery at CML, offset
the planned reduction in Paradise Datacom’s low margin block-up
converters. With improvement in margins, the headline profit (i.e.
profit before tax, amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items)
for our continuing operations increased by 27% to £1.9 million
(2004: £1.5 million). This improvement in profit is despite the
worsening of the dollar exchange rate which reduced the profit on
conversion of our US operating results by £0.1 million in the year.
Headline earnings per share on continuing businesses increased
slightly to 1.49p. This increase was somewhat lower than the
increase in the headline profit as 2004 benefited from the
accumulation of US tax credits.
The successful sale of Pascall Electronics, our non-core power
supply company, was completed on 18 March 2005 and resulted
in final net proceeds of £4.6 million prior to a related £0.9 million
contribution into the Defined Benefit Pension Scheme. Pascall
Electronics recorded sales for the 11
1
/ 2 months before disposal of
£5.8 million (2004: £6.9 million) and an operating loss of £0.1
million compared with a profit in the previous year of £0.3 million.
In the same month we acquired from Filtronic Components
Limited the assets of their Milton Keynes microwave components
design and manufacturing facility. Since its acquisition on
11 March, the new operation, renamed Labtech Microwave,
contributed £0.1 million sales and a small operating profit to our
March results.
Net positive cash flow from continuing businesses, combined with
proceeds on the sale of Pascall Electronics, reduced borrowings
to £2.3 million (2004: £6.6 million).
Dividend
The Board is recommending a maintained final dividend of 0.24
pence (2004: 0.24 pence) per ordinary share, bringing the total
Design team responsible for the new Evolution Series Modem
Nigel Mills
