 5
INTELEK Report and Accounts 2005
Chief Executive’s Review
Intelek has continued to deliver on our stated
corporate strategy including the disposal of
non-core assets and the development and
acquisition of new products. In addition, we
have seen encouraging performances from our
communications businesses, Paradise Datacom
and Labtech, with a continued improvement in
the performance of our aerospace subsidiary,
CML. As a consequence, the continuing
operations recorded an increase of 27% to £1.9
million in headline profit (i.e. profit before tax,
goodwill amortisation and exceptional items).
Net debt reduced by £4.3 million to £2.3 million,
the lowest level for over seventeen years. £0.5
million of this reduction was generated by the
underlying businesses after the annual £1.4
million financing of the deferred benefit pension
deficit. The balance was derived from the net
cash proceeds of the Pascall Electronics
disposal, of £4.6 million, less £0.8 million of the
associated special pension contribution.
Ian Brodie
Disposal of Pascall Electronics
The sale of Pascall Electronics for a gross consideration
of £4.8 million, represented good value for Intelek’s
shareholders. The company’s main activity was design
and manufacture of power supplies for the avionics and
defence markets and was no longer core to the Group’s
strategy of developing its communications businesses.
Pascall Electronics’ trading for the 11
1
/ 2 months to 18
March 2005, is consolidated in Intelek’s 2004/05 results.
This showed a decline in sales to £5.8 million for the
period (2004: £6.9 million), recording an operating loss of
£0.1 million compared with the previous year’s profit of
£0.3 million. Pascall Electronics had been affected by
delayed programmes as evidenced by the high level of
closing order book of £3.9 million, up from £3.0 million
last year. They have a good technical reputation and a
strong relationship with their major customers. We wish
them well for the future.
SAAB Gripen — features components from Labtech Microwave
© Gripen International 6
Paradise Datacom, with facilities in Essex, UK and
Pennsylvania, USA, produces an extensive line of RF and
modem products used in the Satellite Communications
Industry. The worldwide satellite communications
market is estimated at $20 Billion USD according to
various industry sources.
Satellite communications equipment is used
extensively on a worldwide basis to provide
internet/intranet, video, voice and other data services
for corporations, governments and the general
population. Paradise Datacom’s products are
incorporated in all facets of Satcoms from credit card
authorisation services to ruggidised military
applications. Solid state power amplifiers (SSPAs) are
used in the majority of satellite ground station
terminals and Paradise Datacom produces a wide
range of products to service this rapidly expanding
market segment. In addition, Paradise Datacom
produces satellite modems which are designed to
provide high capacity connections from multiple
locations to centralised hub stations. GSM back haul
services, internet trunking services, military
communications and disaster services are a few of
the market segments in which Paradise Datacom
products are applied.
Satellite communications is unique compared to fibre,
microwave and other technologies in that global
coverage can be initiated almost instantaneously by just
placing into service small inexpensive earth station
terminals. These types of terminals which incorporate
Paradise Datacom products are used where rapid
deployment of video, voice and data services are
essential and/or for locations that are remote and do not
have an adequate communications infrastructure.
In an increasing global economy, satellite
communications will continue to grow to meet the
telecommunications needs of corporations,
governments and the military where there is a lack of
telecommunications infrastructure.
Paradise Datacom’s modem products consist of the
P300 series, designed to transmit duplex data signals
at rates up to 5 Mb/s (mega-bits per second), and the
new Evolution series of modems, recently introduced
at the Satellite 2005 Show in Washington DC. The
Evolution modems, which will ultimately replace the
P300 series, utilise the latest firmware device
technology, are rich with features currently in demand
by commercial and government customers and
operate at data rates up to 52 Mb/s. 
Paradise Datacom’s RF product range is one of the most
extensive available in the industry. The range consists of
Solid State Power Amplifiers (SSPAs) with output power
levels from 2 watts to 1,100 watts, Block Up Converter
modules (BUCs), Low-Noise Amplifiers (LNAs) and a host
of redundancy and combining systems.
Satellite Communications Equipment
Paradise Datacom
The latest compact outdoor SSPAs in 1 for 2
switchover system 7
INTELEK Report and Accounts 2005
Paradise Datacom has performed well under its new
management. The company has maintained its position as
one of the world market leaders in high power amplifiers
for the satellite communications industry achieving 33%
growth in sales. Their recognised expertise in this
technology was rewarded by the placement of the first
tranche of an important multi-year programme for the US
National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration
(NOAA) for satellite earth station equipment. The first
element of this order was successfully delivered in 
March 2005.
Primarily due to the anticipated decline in the ageing low
margin block up converters, turnover reduced by 12%.
Margins improved as the management team tightened the
cost base and focused on higher margin opportunities.
Consequently, we were able to hold trading profit at £2.0
million, the 2003/04 level, despite a £0.1 million reduction
in profit from further weakening of the US dollar. The USA
operations produced US$ profits 38% ahead of last year
after restructuring the business for the anticipated
reduction in demand for low power amplifiers. The
business finished the year very strongly and now that a
move to a new production facility at Penn State University
is complete, the company is well placed to take advantage
of the growing number of opportunities in the satellite
communications market.
Sales of solid state power amplifiers and low noise
amplifiers climbed 33%. The US operation continued to
invest in RF research and development, with several new
products coming through. Paradise Datacom is well
positioned to capitalise on the increasing migration from
tube-based high power amplifiers to superior solid state
technology by operators of satellite transmission facilities
worldwide. Year on year results have served to prove our
strategy of capturing market share through technical
innovation at a competitive price.
In the UK, R&D investment continued apace, culminating
after a 2 year programme in the March 2005 product
launch of the new Evolution modem series. As previously
reported, sales of the older P300 technology modems
declined reducing overall modem sales by 17% to £6.2
million. We expect the new Evolution series of modems to
have a significant impact on the worldwide marketplace for
several years to come.
The US and various international governments continued
to invest heavily in Paradise Datacom products in support
of military and national security projects. Mobile satellite
communications continues to be one of the most effective
solutions for rapidly deployable telecommunication
systems for the military and disaster service groups.
Additionally, the increased roll-out of GSM and 3G wireless
technologies has provided growth to both our modem and
amplifier product lines. These technologies require
satellites to transfer traffic from voice and data circuits to
base station locations for eventual trunking onto national
telephone and data networks. Our strategy of increased
global presence has resulted in the appointment of a new
sales director for the Asia region with appointments of a
number of new sales and distribution partners in Latin
America, Africa and the Middle East.
New Penn State University Innovation Park site (ground floor)
Sales £13.7m (2004: £15.5m)
Operating Profit £2.0m (2004: £2.0m)
John Restivo
President
New Products, 
New Markets 8
The Labtech Microwave team
Labtech Circuits is one of the world leaders in
advanced microwave printed circuit processing
technology and MMIC (Monolithic Microwave
Integrated Circuit) packaging and multi-chip
interconnect, used extensively at component and
sub-system level within the Telecommunications
market. Microwave circuit boards are manufactured
in prototype and high volumes for major
telecommunications, military and space system
customers worldwide. 
Labtech Circuits’ technology is based on processing
high performance PTFE microwave substrates with
plated through holes. Circuits can be bonded
together in a multi-layer construction and include
precision machined metal backing for high
frequency applications such as broadband digital
radio links and microwave power amplifiers. A “Chip
& Wire” assembly clean room provides fully
assembled and packaged MMIC circuits which
enable very high levels of integration to be achieved
whilst utilising Labtech’s cost-effective
manufacturing techniques.
The combination of precision circuit machining,
now including laser technology, advanced
automatic chemical processing and MMIC
packaging and assembly, gives Labtech Circuits a
leading world-class capability in the microwave
printed circuit board market.
Labtech Microwave exploits its 15 years’ experience
to manufacture a range of high-end broadband
microwave components mainly for the European
defence market. Using high accuracy thin film
ceramic circuit manufacturing capability, Labtech
Microwave concentrates on designing and
manufacturing multi-octave microwave amplifiers,
switches and detector log video amplifiers (DLVAs).
The division operates out of a highly equipped
modern factory in Milton Keynes, which also
includes a 4,000 sq. ft. clean room. Labtech
Microwave and Labtech Circuits are working
together to design and develop a new range of
microwave products, including DLVAs and low cost
gain modules.
Microwave Circuits and Components
Labtech
Typical Labtech Microwave products 
— amplifier gain modules
Examples of Labtech Circuits’ boards and MMIC
Packaging 9
INTELEK Report and Accounts 2005
Labtech’s encouraging performance reflects a period of
investment and sales growth into its major market of
telecommunications. Turnover grew strongly with new
projects and customers more than replacing the planned
drop off in existing programmes. Sales grew by £1.2
million (14%) in the year but the operating profit
responded even more strongly, up by 41%, and now
stands at 13% of sales (2004: 10% of sales). Labtech
benefited from a higher than expected increase in
demand from their largest customer whose business is
the supply of radio links for GSM and 2
1
/ 2/3G mobile
telephone systems. Operating cash flow was also strong
at £1.5m.
The Labtech Microwave acquisition was completed in
mid-March and therefore its contribution to the year-end
figures, although positive, was very limited. This
acquisition of the trade and assets of Filtronic
Components’ microwave division in Milton Keynes, with
completion three months later, represents an opportunity
well taken. This will enable Labtech to broaden its
manufacturing expertise from being service based to one
which incorporates product design, assembly and test.
New development programmes have, within the first
month of Labtech’s ownership, been launched to address
key market opportunities.
The complexity of Labtech’s product is increasing which
is differentiating Labtech from their lower technology,
lower margin competitors. This is having a positive effect
on margins which are also benefiting from key investment
programmes. During 2004/05, Labtech Circuits invested
£0.5 million in a new high accuracy photoplotter,
automatic optical inspection equipment and various
chemical process lines. During the coming year Labtech
intends to invest further in key areas such as laser
profiling and the manufacture of highly complex
multilayer circuits.
Using its laser machining capabilities, Labtech Circuits
has extended its product offering and business levels in
the emerging MMIC (Monolithic Microwave Integrated
Circuit) packaging market, a critical element of the new
designs of radio links. With the addition of Labtech
Microwave, the company is now in a position to offer its
customers the added value services of microwave design
and test to complement the existing manufacturing
services. The acquisition from Filtronic included an
opening order book of £0.8 million for 2005/06 and, when
added to the ongoing business at Labtech Circuits, this
will result in the Filtronic Group becoming Labtech’s
second largest customer.
Following the recruitment of a Sales Manager based in
the USA, the company has seen increased market
penetration in North America. The success of this venture
has prompted Labtech also to recruit a Sales Manager
for Scandinavia, based in Stockholm. Labtech Circuits is
now involved in a number of new custom radio link circuit
designs for major OEMs in Europe and North America.
This type of complex and specialist circuit manufacturing
technology helps Labtech differentiate itself from other
PCB suppliers who are increasingly subject to lower cost
competition from the Far East.
Sales £9.1m (2004: £7.9m)
Operating Profit £1.2m (2004: £0.8m)
Dr Brian Mazonas
Managing Director
Strong Earnings Growth 10
CML provides a comprehensive service in the
manufacture of aircraft structures and system
components from the supply of individual machined
or composite components through to complete sub-
assemblies or kits of parts.
With a strong pedigree in precision machining for the
aerospace industry since the 1940s, CML’s customers
have benefited from the subsequent integration of
composites, surface treatments, sheet detail
fabrication and assembly into its range of services.
Project and supply chain management have also
become integral parts of this offering.
Precision Machining is focused on 4 and 5-axis
machining of aluminium and hard metals. Principal
products, covering the full range of Airbus aircraft,
include interspar ribs, landing gear ribs, sidestay
wing attachments, wing access panels, engine thrust
fittings and aft mounting brackets. Similar complex
structural components are also supplied for military
and rotary wing aircraft.
Composites predominantly supplies components and
assemblies for the Raytheon Hawker 800XP. Products
include various wing and fuselage fairings, covers,
panels, nose and tail cone assemblies. Spares
and new build requirements for a variety of civil
and military customers are successfully combined
in our comprehensive composites facility.
Fabrication manufactures fuselage and wing stringers
for the Raytheon Hawker 800XP build programme. It
also supports Airbus with a broad range of spare
parts, including AOG (aircraft on ground)
requirements for the entire in-service fleet.
Aerostructures
CML  
Sales £8.8m (2004: £8.6m)
Operating Profit £0.4m (2004: £0.2m)
Geoff Stewart
Managing Director
Airframe components for the Airbus
A320 family, clockwise from LHS:  
Wing Access Panel; Main Undercarriage
Door; Landing Gear Rib; Interspar Rib
Kits and completed assemblies are supplied in a
finished state to customers after passing through CML’s
metal and composites treatments facility, which also
provides a similar service to a growing external
customer base.
We have seen strong recovery within CML. Confidence
has returned to the aerospace market and CML achieved
growth through the year including, in particular, a strong
final quarter with sales 26% higher than the equivalent
quarter in 2003/04 and profit for the year 47% ahead.
Sales gradually increased throughout the year as demand
from the aerospace market began to increase. Growth
was somewhat hampered in the first nine months by
severe shortages in the global supply of aluminium and
the limits to UK aerospace capacity after the reductions
of recent years.
With build rates set to increase further, particularly at
Airbus, CML’s largest customer, our strategy is to
continue to consolidate CML, to strengthen its position
in the marketplace as a strategic supplier of precision
components and to develop further opportunities for the
supply of composite details and assemblies.
During the next twelve months, we will continue to seek
the expansion of capacity and capability through
strategic alliances enabling us to meet customers’
requirements for a total design, manufacturing and
project management solution. 
Aerospace in Recovery 11
INTELEK Report and Accounts 2005
We consider that the worldwide government sector of
the satellite communications market will continue to
grow in the next twelve months and beyond. We also see
our extended representation in more distant parts of the
world offering additional scope, particularly through
representation in Eastern Europe and the Far East. The
launch of the Evolution series of high data rate modems
will give us the ability to win market share in the second
half of the year, particularly in Europe. The Evolution
series will provide us with a new platform for future
development, enabling significant new product releases,
including additional feature sets for existing products, at
regular intervals over the next few years. We expect to
build on our recognised technical expertise in the high
power amplifier market, particularly outdoor products.
At Labtech, we expect some of our principal, older
technology programmes to decline over time. These will
be replaced by new technology, more complex circuits in
smaller volumes, requiring greater manufacturing
flexibility and expertise. Our ability to respond to these
changes will enable us to maintain our leading market
position in the face of Far Eastern competition. We move
forward into 2005/06 with a much increased product
offering. Still concentrating on the global microwave
market, the company is now able to offer its customers
proven design and test capability of microwave
components complementing its successful circuit
manufacturing business. Although telecommunications
will still be the dominant market in 2005/06, sales to the
defence industry offer significant potential.
CML’s final quarter of the last financial year reflected a
considerable increase in activity over previous quarters.
We have moved into the new financial year at a higher
production level than last year and one that should be
maintained. Airbus’s increase in production levels is only
part of the story of the increased confidence emerging in
the aerospace market, sustained not only by the
recovery of passenger traffic but also by the progress
made in key development projects such as the Airbus
A380 and the Boeing 787. CML should continue to make
good progress during the year.
The Group’s finances are now substantially improved on
the position at March 2004. With an agreed Schedule of
Contributions in place with the Pension Trustees, our
annual deficit funding has been catered for within the
Group’s net cash flow. The Group is now able to look
with more confidence at the future, enabling us to
capitalise on the opportunities which will arise to
increase market share through organic growth or, indeed,
through carefully selected acquisitions.
Ian D Brodie
Chief Executive
6 June 2005
Outlook
The new ‘Evolution Series’ Satellite Modem capable of up to 52 Mb/s The Evolution Series’ unique web-based test
facility for customers
Confidence Increasing
