 2 INTELEK
Report and Accounts 2006
2 2
Chairman’s Statement
million). A similar performance from Paradise Datacom
and a very strong positive performance from CML
was offset by profit slipping back at Labtech from the
continued reduction in the long-standing telecoms
volume programme. The acquisition of the microwave
products division and the continued development of
Labtech towards providing MMIC packages and
specialist PCBs will reduce the company’s reliance on
volume telecoms work. 
Under International Financial Reporting Standards,
adopted at the half-year but in the full year
accounts for the first time, headline profit increased
by 6% to £1.8 million. The previous year’s figure of
£1.7 million was prior to the loss of £0.12 million on
Pascall Electronics Limited sold in March 2005.
Headline profit is after net interest of £0.31 million
(2005: £0.45 million) and the new IFRS net pension
finance cost of £0.58 million (2005: £0.63 million).
Further comment on the effects of the changeover
to International Financial Reporting Standards, I will
leave to Kevin Edwards in his Financial Review.
Profit before tax, at £1.8 million, recorded an
increase of 29% over the previous year, benefiting
from nil restructuring costs (2005: £0.3 million).
Dividend
The Board is recommending a maintained final
dividend of 0.24p (2005: 0.24p) per ordinary share,
bringing the total dividend for the year to 0.36p
(2005: 0.36p). If approved at the Annual General
Introduction
I am pleased to report that the Group continued to
make significant progress during the year. The new
microwave products division is now fully integrated
into Labtech. Paradise Datacom’s high data rate
modem is in production and operations in the
United States performed exceptionally well. CML
signed a 5 year supply agreement with Airbus after
a year in which both operational and financial
performance exceeded expectations.
Earnings per share on continuing businesses were
1.56p, compared with the previous year’s figure of
1.07p. Total borrowings increased by £1.1 million in the
year, mainly as a consequence of the purchase of the
microwave products division at Milton Keynes.
Results
Sales for the year increased by 11.7% to £35.2
million on a continuing company basis. CML
showed the highest volume growth with sales
increasing by 25%. At Paradise Datacom sales of
solid state power amplifiers increased by 21%
although overall sales increased by a modest 3%
due to a dip in modem sales as a result of the
anticipated effect of one long-standing product
being superseded by a more sophisticated modem
which only moved into volume production in
January 2006.
Headline operating profit (before restructuring costs),
at £2.7 million, was marginally lower than 2005 (£2.8
David Bramwell 3 INTELEK
Report and Accounts 2006
Meeting on 15 September 2006, this final dividend
will be paid on 27 September 2006 to shareholders
on the register at the close of business on 
1 September 2006.
Strategy
Our strategy continues to be centred on the
development of our businesses in the
communications industry and, in particular, the
satellite element of that industry. We intend to
develop shareholder value by building an integrated
Group with a significant share of niche global
markets in our chosen field of communications. We
also intend to enhance shareholder value by
continuing to support and develop our
aerostructures business for as long as it remains
part of the Intelek Group. We firmly believe in the
ability of our existing businesses to grow
organically within their chosen markets by sound
investment in product development, capital
equipment and enhanced geographic coverage. We
will also complement this organic growth by
suitable acquisition within our core activity as and
when the right opportunity is identified.
People
The skill, commitment and enthusiasm of our
employees are key to the ongoing success of the
Group and, on behalf of the Board, I would like to
record my sincere thanks to them for their loyalty
and valued contributions during the year. I would
also like to advise you that, after five years’ service
to the Group, Nigel Mills has tendered his resignation
to take effect from the date of the Annual General
Meeting in September. Nigel has been reducing his
time commitment to the Group and, after a period as
Chairman, is currently Non-Executive Deputy
Chairman. On behalf of the Board I would like to
thank Nigel for his contribution to the Group.
Prospects
We continue to be alert not only to the changes in
our marketplace but also to opportunities to advance
business in general. We intend to address the issue
of the Pension Scheme deficit by implementing
several initiatives underpinned by the knowledge that
a strong and successful Group is the real long-term
assurance a pension scheme has that its obligations
will be met. Many of the changes made at Paradise
Datacom over the last two years have borne fruit but
some have still so to do. At Labtech, the business
model is changing and I would not expect to see
significant growth or benefit coming from these
changes in the short term. CML should continue to
benefit from a vibrant market and its own improving
performance. Overall, I expect to see steady but
significant growth in our performance with a
continuing improvement in our balance sheet.
David M Bramwell
Chairman
6 June 2006
3
Overall, I expect to see steady but significant growth 
in our performance with a continuing improvement in 
our balance sheet.
