 4 INTELEK
Report and Accounts 2006
4
Intelek made encouraging progress overall with profit
before tax of £1.8 million, slightly ahead of market
expectations and some 29% higher than the 
previous year.
Paradise Datacom ended the year strongly and
increased sales of its solid state power amplifiers
(SSPAs) by over 20% on the previous year, which in
itself was an increase of 33% on 2004. Part of this
growth came from additional government business,
the sector of our market which has shown the most
consistent upward trend in recent years. Paradise
Datacom’s strong showing in amplifier products made
up for lower sales in modems where the new Evolution
modem has not yet been able to fully offset the
anticipated decline in the older P300 modem.
Nevertheless, the increasing level of Evolution order
inflow in the final quarter, combined with a $240k
government contract at the end of the year for the new
modem, provides us with growing confidence of a
recovery in modem sales in the current year.
Although our new Labtech Microwave Components
operation at Milton Keynes exceeded our original
aspirations, Labtech Circuits suffered from the
predicted continuing tail-off in one of its older
technology volume programmes on which I have
previously reported. This programme peaked in 2001
with sales of £9.0 million, representing 66% of
Labtech’s sales, while in the year to 31 March 2006
deliveries had reduced to £2.7 million, representing
26% of Labtech’s total sales. Sales on this programme
are expected to be in the order of £1.8 million in the
current year. On the new business front, it was very
pleasing to see Labtech receive the initial order for
engineering and pre-production units on a multi-year
military programme which requires the products and
technologies from both Labtech Circuits and Labtech
Microwave. We would not have won this programme
without the increased capability of both our sites and it
represents the type of work which is seen to be core
for the new, broader based Labtech.
The performance at CML was first-rate. On a sales
growth of 25%, CML has managed to triple its
operating profit to a level of 10% of sales — an
excellent figure in the extremely competitive
aerostructures market. The entire team at CML had
planned and implemented a number of changes during
the 2004/05 year which meant they were well placed
to respond efficiently to their major customers’
requirements to increase their respective build rates.
CML has maintained momentum throughout the year
Chief Executive’s Review
Ian Brodie 5 INTELEK
Report and Accounts 2006
5
and produced a very solid twelve month performance.
A measure of CML’s success and growing reputation
was that it was recently awarded a five year contract
by Airbus UK for the continuing manufacture of various
components on all of Airbus’ major current commercial
programmes. Deliveries of these components in
2005/06 amounted to £4.6 million.
Further action has been taken during the year on the
management of the Pension Scheme deficit including
a recent offer to certain deferred members of the
Defined Benefit Pension Scheme which would provide
them with an enhanced transfer value while, at the
same time, lowering the IAS 19 deficit. More detail will
be published once the likely take-up is known. Bank
facilities have been agreed to cover the maximum
potential level of take-up.
Intelek made encouraging progress overall with profit before tax of
£1.8 million, slightly ahead of market expectations and some 29%
higher than the previous year. 6 INTELEK
Report and Accounts 2006
Paradise Datacom, with facilities in Essex, UK and
Pennsylvania, USA, produces an extensive line of RF
and modem products used in the Satellite
Communications Industry. The worldwide satellite
communications  market is estimated at US $20 billion
according to various industry sources.
Satellite communications equipment is used
extensively on a worldwide basis to provide
internet/intranet, video, voice and other data services
for corporations, governments and the general
population. Paradise Datacom’s products are
incorporated in all facets of Satcoms from credit card
authorisation services to ruggidised military
applications. Solid state power amplifiers (SSPAs) are
used in the majority of satellite ground station
terminals and Paradise Datacom produces a wide
range of products to service this rapidly expanding
market segment. In addition, Paradise Datacom
produces satellite modems which are designed to
provide high capacity connections from multiple
locations to centralised hub stations. GSM back haul
services, internet trunking services, military
communications and disaster services are a few of the
market segments in which Paradise Datacom
products are applied.
Satellite communications is unique compared to fibre,
microwave and other technologies in that global
coverage can be initiated almost instantaneously by
just placing into service small inexpensive earth station
terminals. These types of terminals, which incorporate
Paradise Datacom products, are used where rapid
deployment of video, voice and data services are
essential and/or for locations that are remote and do
not have an adequate communications infrastructure.
In an increasingly global economy, satellite
communications will continue to grow to meet the
telecommunications needs of corporations,
governments and the military where there is a lack of
telecommunications infrastructure.
Paradise Datacom’s modem products consist of the
Evolution series designed to transmit duplex data
signals at rates up to 52 Mb/s (mega-bits per second),
and the legacy P300 series modem. The Evolution
modems utilise the latest firmware device technology
and are rich with features currently in demand by
government and commercial markets worldwide.
Paradise Datacom’s RF product range is one of the
most extensive available in the industry. The range
consists of Solid State Power Amplifiers (SSPAs) with
output power levels from 2 watts to 1,100 watts,
Block Up Converter modules (BUCs), Low-Noise
Amplifiers (LNAs) and a host of redundancy and
combining systems.
Satellite Communications Equipment
Paradise Datacom
Sales £14.1m (2005: £13.7m)
Operating Profit £2.0m (2005: £2.0m)
John Restivo President 7 INTELEK
Report and Accounts 2006
Paradise Datacom has identified a number of key
sectors to target which include Satellite News
Gathering (SNG), Military/Government, tube
amplifier replacement and GSM mobile phone
infrastructure. Industry-wide migration from tube
amplifiers to SSPA technology continues at an
increasing rate and, as a result, Paradise Datacom
has experienced a 21% growth in SSPA and low
noise amplifier (LNA) sales. 
In early 2005, Sales and Marketing launched a
targeted campaign on the tube-dominated SNG
market through market-focused advertisements,
field demonstrations and customer presentations.
The success of the campaign has been notable and
Paradise Datacom’s SNG repeat-customer list now
includes the leading US mobile satcom integrators.
Twelve months ago Paradise Datacom had
negligible business from this market segment but
turnover for the last financial year was over £1
million and continues to grow each quarter. 
The implementation of our Military/Government
marketing strategy has resulted in another strong
year of amplifier sales from this significant portion
of the global satcom market. Our products are
being utilised in US military networks in the Persian
Gulf as well as in Homeland Security and disaster
recovery networks in the US. In addition, Paradise
Datacom received additional follow-on contracts for
high power S-Band amplifiers used for the
telemetry, tracking and control of a constellation of
weather satellites. We are currently in pursuit of
three additional contracts for systems earmarked
for deployment during the 2006 fiscal year. Our
R&D Department is in the process of developing
new products specifically suited to this market.
The US operation has invested additional resource
in further development of the SSPA product line,
which has resulted in the release of several new
products. Paradise Datacom continues to push the
“state of the art” in the areas of RF power density,
remote access and packaging, including the use of
composite materials to gain weight and thermal
advantages. The move to our new State College
facility on the campus of Penn State University has
resulted in increased operational efficiencies and an
improved recruiting environment. Lower margin
VSAT (very small aperture terminal) amplifier
products continue to be de-emphasised as we
focus on higher margin SSPA products. This has
positioned the US operation for solid growth and
continued success for the future.
Government and Homeland Security programmes
continue to be the major market segments targeted
by our sales and marketing personnel with several
large programmes not yet awarded that are likely to
incorporate Paradise amplifier and modem
products. Paradise Datacom also continues to
expand its sales and marketing activity into regions
of the world not previously addressed. Sales from
the Asia Pacific region have increased from £0.2
million to over £1.4 million during the past year with
our anticipation of continued, strong growth based
on increased presence and new modem products. 
Paradise Datacom’s UK operation, being responsible
for the development of the Evolution series modem,
Satellite News Gathering in Iraq
Evolution Modem capable of 
up to 52 mega-bits per second 8 INTELEK
Report and Accounts 2006
continued to expand feature sets and completed the
development of a new modem protection switch and
the L-band version of the modem. The initial
deployment of Evolution modems to customer sites
for beta-testing has been completed with several
high profile customers resulting in an increasing rate
of order flow in the final quarter.
Our legacy modem products continue to find
market demand, with notable success in
developing countries installing GSM phone
infrastructure. The GSM market continues to
represent the largest commercial market for satellite
modems and medium power amplifiers used for the
transfer of traffic from voice and data circuits to
base station locations for eventual trunking on to
national telephone and data networks. We expect
sales of our legacy modem to continue over the
next few years, with a gradual reduction in
volumes, during which period we expect to see the
Evolution modem recover Paradise’s market share.
Although our modem product line experienced a 13%
decline in turnover and 10% decline in margin
contribution from the previous year, positive results
from our SSPA marketing and deployment strategies
has enabled us to improve our operating profit by 3%.
As we shift more of our market focus back on to
modems while still spending 12% of our total revenues
on R&D programmes, we expect to see solid growth
across both modem and RF product lines.
2004 2005 2006
135
130
125
120
115
110
105
100
Sales/Head (£000)
2004 2005 2006
4.5
4.4
4.3
4.2
4.1
4.0
3.9
3.8
3.7
3.6
Stock turns
2004 2005 2006
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Return on Capital Employed (%)
Key Performance Indicators 
Three key ratios for each of the operating companies have been selected to highlight performance
movement in the last three years with brief explanatory comments where necessary.
(a) The sales per head ratio continues to benefit from the restructuring changes made over the last two years.
(b) Stock turns reduced in 2006 due to the requirement for a higher level of investment in inventories to support the amplifier
growth and the new modem product launch.
(c) ROCE has improved over the last three years, mainly as a result of the targeted reduction in total capital employed.
An earth station equipped with Paradise Datacom products 9 INTELEK
Report and Accounts 2006
Microwave Circuits and Components
Labtech
Dr Brian Mazonas
Managing Director
Labtech Circuits is one of the world leaders in
advanced microwave printed circuit processing
technology and MMIC (Monolithic Microwave
Integrated Circuit) packaging and multi-chip
interconnect, used extensively at component and
sub-system level within the Telecommunications
market. Microwave circuit boards are
manufactured in prototype and high volumes for
major telecommunications, military and space
system customers worldwide. 
Labtech Circuits’ technology is based on
processing high performance PTFE microwave
substrates with plated through holes. Circuits can
be bonded together in a multi-layer construction
and include precision machined metal backing for
high frequency applications such as broadband
digital radio links and microwave power amplifiers.
A “Chip & Wire” assembly clean room provides
fully assembled and packaged MMIC circuits which
enable very high levels of integration to be
achieved whilst utilising Labtech’s cost-effective
manufacturing techniques.
The combination of precision circuit machining,
(now including laser technology), advanced
automatic chemical processing and MMIC
packaging and assembly gives Labtech Circuits a
leading world-class capability in the microwave
printed circuit board market.
Labtech Microwave exploits its 16 years’ experience
to manufacture a range of high-end broadband
microwave components mainly for the European
defence market. Using high accuracy thin film
ceramic circuit manufacturing capability, Labtech
Microwave concentrates on designing and
manufacturing multi-octave microwave amplifiers,
switches and detector log video amplifiers (DLVAs).
The division operates out of a highly equipped
modern factory in Milton Keynes, which also
includes a 4,000 sq. ft. clean room. Labtech
Microwave and Labtech Circuits have worked
successfully together to design and develop a new
range of microwave products, which includes
broadband PIN switches, low cost gain modules
and high performance DLVAs.
Sales £10.2m (2005: £9.1m)
Operating Profit £0.7m (2005: £1.1m) 10 INTELEK
Report and Accounts 2006
Although the combination of Labtech Circuits and
Labtech Microwave generated sales growth of £1.1
million, the operating profit was eroded to £0.7
million by an expected decline in some of Labtech
Circuits’ principal older production programmes,
together with some unwelcome and substantial
increases in the cost of electricity and basic raw
materials such as gold and silver. However, Labtech
Microwave sales and profit were ahead of our
expectations in a year which has seen it fully
integrate into the Labtech structure.
The strategic goal of Labtech is to become an
integrated supplier of specialist microwave circuits,
assembled circuits and fully designed,
manufactured and tested microwave components
to the Telecommunications, Defence, SatCom and
Space markets. The combination of Labtech
Circuits and Labtech Microwave takes this initiative
much closer to fruition. Labtech’s prowess in
packaging miniature semiconductor MMICs
(monolithic microwave integrated circuits) and
providing a turn-key assembly and test facility at
Labtech Microwave is being heavily marketed.
During the trading year Labtech invested
approximately £1 million in processing equipment
which included a second Laser profiling centre,
high accuracy automatic photoprinter and a
dedicated line for the processing of precision thin
dielectric substrates for MMIC packaging and
multilayer applications. Key product development
programmes have been established throughout the
year including broadband PIN Switches, ERDLVAs
(extended range detector log video amplifiers)
aimed at the electronic warfare market, and
broadband amplifiers. Labtech Microwave have
also developed new products based on the thin
dielectric PCB technology developed by Labtech
Circuits.
In 2005/06, Labtech successfully reduced its
dependency on the highly competitive Telecom
market from 81% to 63% mainly due to its
increased product offering into the Defence market.
Mobile telecom has been an important sector for
Labtech, but volume and margins are reducing due
to global competitive pressures and the availability
of Asian suppliers, particularly for the lower end,
high volume boards. Labtech expects further
reduction in its volumes in this sector, whilst
expanding its services to the smaller volume, niche
segments of the market, such as military and
satcoms. Towards the end of the year the European
defence market benefited from the release of certain
EFA (European Fighter Aircraft) ‘Tranche 2’ contracts
and Labtech obtained some significant orders. The
added advantage of being able to offer specialist
microwave assembly and test services as well as
high-end PCBs is appealing to the defence market.
European Fighter Aircraft
Mobile telecom mast 11 INTELEK
Report and Accounts 2006
Labtech takes its responsibility to the environment
and its employees very seriously. As a heavy user
of numerous chemicals in its processes, Labtech
has adopted world-class working practices. The
International environment standard, ISO 14001, has
already been attained at Circuits’ location in
Presteigne and accreditation is targeted in June
2006 for the Milton Keynes site. Labtech works
closely with all regulating authorities, keeping in line
with the ever-tightening specifications. By way of
example, the Circuits’ operation uses about 276
cubic metres of water a day, then cleans it through
a high specification treatment plant before returning
it to the water supplier.
The outlook for 2006/07 remains cautious as
volumes at Labtech Circuits are expected to
decline further in older standard production
programmes. However, newer technology
programmes are increasing in production and as
the year progresses the investments in product
development and capital equipment will
increasingly attract new opportunities to a
repositioned Labtech.
One of Labtech’s recently 
released Microwave components
2006 includes Labtech Microwave
The inclusion of Labtech Microwave in the asset base and the fall in Labtech Circuit’s performance have resulted in a downturn in
the key ratios for the last 12 months.
2004 2005 2006
94
92
90
88
86
84
82
80
Sales/Head (£000)
2004 2005 2006
10
8
6
4
2
0
Stock turns
2004 2005 2006
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
Return on Capital Employed (%)
Key Performance Indicators
Examples of Labtech Circuits’ boards 
and MMIC Packaging 12 INTELEK
Report and Accounts 2006
Aerostructures
CML
Geoff Stewart
Managing Director
Sales £11.0m (2005: £8.8m)
Operating Profit £1.1m (2005: £0.4m)
CML provides a comprehensive service in the
manufacture of aircraft structures and system
components from the supply of individual machined
or composite components through to complete
sub-assemblies or kits of parts.
The group has four divisions located on two sites in
Birkenhead in the North West of England.
The Precision Machining Division is focused on 4
and 5-axis machining of aluminium and hard metals.
Principal products, covering almost the full range of
Airbus aircraft, include interspar ribs, landing gear
rib supports and sidestay fittings, underwing access
panels and engine thrust fittings and aft mounting
brackets. The award this year of a 5-year contract
covering these items also includes an additional
package of stringers for the Airbus A340.
Components for military and rotary wing aircraft are
also supplied to other customers. Of particular
significance in 2006/07 will be the introduction of
work on the A400M programme through other
suppliers to Airbus.
The Composites Division specialises in the
manufacture and repair of glass and carbon fibre
components and assemblies. Products include
various wing and fuselage fairings, covers, and
panels, nose and tail cone assemblies, air-
conditioning ducts, flooring, etc. The largest new
build programme is the Raytheon Hawker 800XP
whilst spares and other new build requirements are
supplied for a variety of civil, business and military
aircraft programmes.
The Fabrication Division manufactures extruded
fuselage and wing stringers for the Hawker 800XP
build programme plus various other sheet metal parts,
primarily as spares for the in-service fleet of Airbus
aircraft.
The Treatments Division provides a comprehensive
in-house surface treatments capability supporting
the other three divisions but also has a valuable
external customer base. INTELEK
Report and Accounts 2006
Raytheon Hawker corporate jet Airbus A318, 319, 320 and 321
13
CML performed extremely well in 2005/06 with
sales up by 25% and operating profit increasing
threefold on the previous year. Tight control of
manufacturing processes, underpinned by careful
financial management, has seen gross margins
sustained, stock turns improve and a positive cash
position maintained throughout the year. 
The upturn in sales was principally a reflection of
improved market conditions, in particular the
increase in build rates for the Airbus family of
aircraft and Raytheon’s Hawker 800 series 
business jets. 
The main volume increases came in the Precision
Machining division, where we had quickly increased
capacity recognising the shifting pattern in the
marketplace. Sales here were up 24%, and £400k
was invested in new machining centres. Sales in
the Composites division grew by 41%, and with the
market trend toward the increasing use of
composite materials, we shall be looking at how
best to develop this valuable capability. 
During the year, the management team was
strengthened with additional support in production
management and continuous improvement
techniques. Development of CML’s 164 employees
continues to be a priority, with training at all levels
within the company. This programme, and further
investment in machinery, will improve productivity,
expand capacity and secure CML’s long-term future
in what is expected to be a strong aerospace
market in at least the next three years. 
Significant steps have been taken to implement
CML’s strategy to gain new business from the
existing customer base and develop new
customers and programmes both in the UK and
overseas. A major achievement in the year was
securing a five-year agreement with Airbus, our
largest customer, guaranteeing a percentage of
volume requirements for certain components
across a range of aircraft. In 2005/06, CML shipped
£4.6 million in respect of these components. This
provides a firm platform from which to develop the 14 INTELEK
Report and Accounts 2006
business. In the latter part of 2005, we
strengthened our sales team, employing a sales
agent based in France. We have already received
orders from two major French suppliers to the
European aerospace industry. 
As part of CML’s ongoing commitment to improve
health and safety and the environment, we have
focused training for both our Health & Safety
Committee and supervision in comprehensive risk
assessment and improvement techniques.
Investment in energy control, swarf management
and coolant reclamation systems has yielded
significant reductions in waste in support of
working toward achieving ISO 14001 accreditation
in the next twelve months.
Airbus A400M, Military Aircraft
2004 2005 2006
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Sales/Head (£000)
2004 2005 2006
10
8
6
4
2
0
Order book (£ million)
2004 2005 2006
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
Return on Capital Employed (%)
Key Performance Indicators
Improvement in all of the above key ratios reflects CML’s strong performance over the past year and the current health of the aerospace
industry. Order book is for 12 months only. 15 INTELEK
Report and Accounts 2006
Paradise Datacom currently operates within a
robust satellite communications market bolstered
by a number of strategic investment programmes
across government sectors. We currently benefit
from industry-leading solid state technology in the
amplifier market which allows us to increase the
power levels and win market share from tube
amplifiers. In the modem market, the new Evolution
high data rate product will be competing with our
two much larger competitors and their longer
established high data rate modems. This will
provide us with a significant challenge to grow
market share meaningfully but we believe firmly
that we now have the platform and the additional
features which will allow us to do this over the next
two/three years.
Labtech is beginning to see the benefits of its new
business model but will still have to offset the fall-
off in its high volume telecommunications product.
The new investment in automatic assembly
equipment for the MMIC product and the new
process lines, combined with the opportunities
opening up for us in Microwave components,
should result in a significant change to Labtech’s
centre of gravity.
CML’s prospects at this time look excellent with a
12 month order book as at 31 March 2006 on
current build rates standing at £8.7 million (2005:
£7.9 million) and with the opportunity to broaden
significantly its customer base in Europe. The
recently announced Airbus contract also provides
CML with a visibility that allows them to initiate
appropriate investment programmes to meet the
considerable demands of the major Airbus
programmes over the next five years.
The deficit in the Defined Benefit Pension Scheme
will continue to require careful management, but we
have proven able to manage the obligation,
covering the agreed contribution level with steadily
increasing cash generation from our trading
operations.
The opportunities available to Intelek within our
existing markets look exciting. Although we are
dependent to a certain extent on the state of the
global economy, we believe the Group is operating
in the right markets with the right product offering
and has the calibre of people necessary for its
ongoing success. We look forward to updating
shareholders on our progress. 
Ian D Brodie
Chief Executive
6 June 2006
Outlook
