 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
After the launch of the new Evolution
modem in mid-2005, its presence began
to take hold in the early part of 2006.
Order intake grew substantially in
2006/07 with sales success achieved in
a number of European military
programmes and, notably, winning a 300
modem order from China in August
2006. Total modem sales grew by 20%
with Paradise Datacom’s operating profit
increasing by 41% to £3.0 million.
Labtech faced a more difficult year with a
continuing and sharp fall in their fourth
quarter sales of microwave circuit boards
to the telecommunications mobile
phone infrastructure market. Customers’
forecasts were reducing month by month
from November onwards and, as a
consequence, sales in the second half
were £0.4 million lower than the first half
although the running rate for the
operating loss was reduced following
management action taken in January.
The continuation of the weakness in their
telecommunications market necessitated
a structural review of the Labtech
business with a provision of £0.5 million
Intelek made significant progress during
2006/07 with the underlying profit, before
tax, for the Group at £2.34 million (2006:
£1.81 million), comfortably ahead of
market expectations. The deficit on the
Defined Benefit Pension Scheme was
reduced by 60% and operating cash flow
remained strong.
2006/07 was a year in which Paradise
Datacom benefited from a number of
initiatives put in place some two to three
years ago. At that time, the overriding
objective of R&D expenditure was to
develop a new high data rate modem.
Whilst this was in process, Paradise
Datacom concentrated on promoting
their lesser known but technically
superior range of Solid State Power
Amplifiers (SSPAs). Notable sales
success was achieved in government
programmes, news gathering vehicles
and in increasing global geographic
coverage. As a consequence, Paradise
Datacom has now recorded the third
consecutive year of growth in amplifier
business in excess of 20%.
Ian Brodie
www.intelek.plc.uk 4 being taken in March to cover staff
reduction, the impairment of certain fixed
assets and a reduction in floor space by
terminating a number of short-term
leases. These actions will not adversely
affect Labtech’s ability to move towards
becoming a more specialist microwave
packaged solutions and components
business but should enable Labtech to
break even for the first six months of the
2007/08 year and provide a platform for
profitable trading in the year as a whole.
After a successful 2005/06, CML
continued strongly with added vigour.
The increased demand from Airbus on
single-aisle commercial aircraft and from
Hawker Beechcraft on their corporate
jets was the prime factor in the sales
growth of 6% but the attention given to
margins and overhead control during the
year enabled CML to increase its full year
trading profit by 45% to £1.6 million. At
13.5% of sales, this profit performance is
a measure of the efficiency of this
business.
Intelek
Report and Accounts 2007
5
A Satellite News Gathering truck with Paradise Datacom amplifiers A close-up of the compact outdoor amplifier on the roof of the SNG truck www.intelek.plc.uk 6
Satellite Communications
Equipment Paradise Datacom
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
Sales £16.9m (2006: £14.1m)
Operating Profit £3.0m (2006: £2.1m)
John Restivo President
Paradise Datacom, with facilities in
Essex, UK and Pennsylvania, USA,
produces an extensive line of RF and
modem products used in the Satellite
Communications Industry. The worldwide
satellite communications equipment
market is estimated at $25 billion
according to various industry sources.
Satellite communications equipment is
used extensively on a worldwide basis
to provide internet/intranet, video, voice
and other data services for
corporations, governments and
the general population. Paradise
Datacom’s products are incorporated in
all facets of Satcoms from credit card
authorisation services to ruggedised
military applications.
Solid State Power Amplifiers (SSPAs)
are used in the majority of satellite
ground station terminals and Paradise
Datacom produces a wide range of
products to service this rapidly
expanding market segment. In addition,
Paradise Datacom produces satellite
modems which are designed to provide
high capacity connections from
multiple locations to centralised hub
stations. GSM back haul services,
internet trunking services, military
communications and disaster recovery
services are a few of the market
segments in which Paradise Datacom
products are applied.
Satellite communications is unique
compared to fibre, microwave and other
technologies in that global coverage
can be initiated almost instantaneously
by just placing into service small
inexpensive earth station terminals.
These types of terminals which
incorporate Paradise Datacom products
are used where rapid deployment of
video, voice and data services are
essential and/or for locations that are
remote and do not have an adequate
communications infrastructure.
In an increasing global economy,
satellite communications will continue
to grow to meet the
telecommunications needs of
corporations, governments and the
military where there is a lack of
telecommunications infrastructure.
Paradise Datacom’s modem products
consist of the Evolution series designed
to transmit duplex data signals at rates
up to 55 mb/s (mega-bits per second),
redundancy products and systems. The
Evolution modems utilise the latest
firmware device technology and are
rich with features currently in demand
by government and commercial
markets worldwide.
Paradise Datacom’s RF product range
is one of the most extensive available in
the industry. The range consists of Solid
State Power Amplifiers (SSPAs) with
output power levels from 8 watts to
1,100 watts, Block Up Converter
modules (BUCs), Low-Noise Amplifiers
(LNAs) and a host of redundancy and
combining systems.
Evolution Modem capable of
up to 52 mega-bits per second Paradise Datacom has evolved to become
a market leader in the development,
production and distribution of Solid State
Power Amplifiers (SSPAs) and modems for
the satellite communications industry.
Cutting-edge products, innovative features
and a strategic marketing focus has
positioned Paradise Datacom to continue
to increase its share of the estimated $25
billion ground equipment market.
We continue to invest heavily in research
and development (11% of sales in
2006/07), in an ongoing drive to
differentiate our products from competitors
through the incorporation of unique,
market-driven features. This investment, in
conjunction with focused sales and
marketing, generated impressive results in
virtually all aspects of our business.
Paradise Datacom experienced another
outstanding year both in orders and
turnover. Significant investment in our
Evolution modem product line resulted in a
number of key strategic orders being won
against more heavily favoured incumbents,
largely due to superior performance and
unique features. As with our amplifiers, the
modems experienced strong year-on-year
growth of 20%.
Our business strategy is to continue to
develop our product range and incorporate
market driven features in concert with
designs and practices that reduce
manufacturing costs. For example, the
opening of a high-volume sub contract
modem manufacturing operation in the US
midway through the financial year has
allowed us to increase production and
reduce lead times.
We continue to target market sectors which
require our specialist technology and have
the greatest potential for growth. The single
largest application for satellite modems is
to link GSM/cellular networks together via
satellite in geographic areas that are not
well served by terrestrial services. This
sector continues to generate substantial
growth. With over two billion subscribers
worldwide, cellular customers represent
77% of the total digital communications
market. Though originally used exclusively
for voice communications, today’s cellular
networks support a multitude of high
bandwidth applications including the
transmission and reception of GPS, video
services, web browsing, e-mailing and
other internet-based services. These
networks require sophisticated, bandwidth-
efficient products such as our Evolution
modem. Some of the Evolution’s features
provide significant performance
enhancements, while reducing operational
costs by increasing information throughput.
Our revolutionary new multiplexer option
allows the combining of multiple
communications channels into a single
modem, resulting in major cost savings for
many network architectures.
The satellite industry’s migration from the
use of Travelling Wave Tube Amplifiers
(TWTAs) to SSPA technology began over a
decade ago and the trend will continue. US
and European regulatory agencies are
ensuring the migration from standard to
High-Definition Television (HDTV), driving
the need for satellite uplinks which are best
provided by solid state technology.
In 2005, Paradise Datacom launched an
assault on the digital satellite news-
gathering market through a targeted focus
on system integrators that specialise in
these mobile platforms. In 2006, Paradise
Datacom supplied the industry’s first ultra-
high power, dual-band, mobile transmitter
to support HDTV broadcasts of major
sporting events. The system was proudly
displayed by our customer at this year’s
National Association of Broadcasters
Convention in Las Vegas. Having been a
virtual “unknown” in this market, Paradise
has become a supplier of RF technology to
most of the major integrators with several
of them adopting our products as “the
standard” for their mobile uplinks.
We adopted a global marketing strategy
some three years ago. We progressed this
during the year by implementing a Latin
American initiative with the principal focus
on the related markets of Brazil, Argentina,
Paraguay and Uruguay. Following several
years of stagnant economy, healthy growth
is forecast for a number of Latin American
countries. The vast, topographically diverse
nature of the Amazonian region guarantees
that satellites will provide the core telecoms
infrastructure for years to come.
In three years our strategy has resulted in a
rise in revenues from Asian markets,
increasing from $300,000 in 2004/05 to
over $4 million in 2006/07. Our largest
single modem order was received last year
Intelek
Report and Accounts 2007
7
State-of-the-art amplifiers supplied in rack form
for the HDTV truck
SNG truck with the latest High-Definition TV technology for a GSM network in Tibet. SSPAs
manufactured by Paradise Datacom now
populate the Indonesian landscape where,
until recently, TWTAs reigned supreme. Our
high power SSPAs deliver TV broadcasts
on the island of Fiji and Evolution modems
are replacing legacy products in Papua
New Guinea and Pakistan.
The European, Middle Eastern and African
regions have all achieved steady growth,
particularly from our RF product line.
Operators in Ghana, Nigeria, Kenya,
Djibouti and South Africa are deploying
new networks and expanding existing ones
based on Paradise products. Efforts to
develop new markets in the Middle East
are already yielding positive results. Our
European customer-base continues to
grow, especially in the government sector.
Several high profile military contracts have
been awarded to Paradise Datacom for
both our SSPA and modem products
against strong competition from existing
suppliers. A number of these awards are on
long-term programmes extending five
years into the future.
The North America team is focused largely
on the government and military sectors.
Satellites provide the backbone for
telecoms operators that require secure
communications, maximum flexibility and
the ability to deploy quickly. Satellite
terminals are typically the primary means
for transmission of video, voice and data
for deployed military personnel,
peacekeeping forces and disaster recovery
organisations. Historically, government
departments such as the various
international defence ministries were
reluctant to embrace new technologies
despite widespread adoption by the
commercial side of the industry. With the
undeniable benefits SSPA technology
offers over TWTAs for many applications
which require robust reliable equipment
these agencies are quickly incorporating
solid state technology in their telecom
requirements. Having gained extensive
knowledge and insight into how large
government programmes operate, our
sales force is aggressively marketing
Paradise Datacom solutions to the system
integrators involved. We are also working
with the end user agencies to increase their
awareness of the benefits of using our
products. Large budget allocations for
defence operations, US Homeland Defence
and disaster recovery will present Paradise
Datacom with some very significant
opportunities in coming years.
Overall, our SSPA and modem product
lines continue to flourish. We ended the
year with a record £2.3 million order book
which will form the foundation for 2007/08.
We will continue to invest in developing our
product range, expand our international
reach further and ensure that our
production capabilities are cost-effective,
thereby enabling Paradise Datacom to
continue to develop its global presence.
Key Performance Indicators
Three key ratios for each of the operating
companies have been selected to
www.intelek.plc.uk 8
Satellite Communications
Equipment Paradise Datacom
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
2005 2006 2007
170
160
150
140
130
120
110
100
Sales/Head (£000)
2005 2006 2007
2005 2006 2007
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE)
excluding Goodwill
Stock turns per annum
Large transportable PacSat antenna with Paradise Datacom amplifiers loaded
beneath the dish
highlight performance movement in the
last three years with brief explanatory
comments where necessary.
(a) The sales per head ratio continues to
benefit from the restructuring changes
made over the last two years.
(b) Stock turns and ROCE improved
through production efficiencies and
sales performance.
%
5
4
3
2
1
0 Intelek
Report and Accounts 2007
9
Microwave Circuits
and Components Labtech
Labtech Circuits specialises in
advanced microwave printed circuit
processing technology and MMIC
(Monolithic Microwave Integrated
Circuit) packaging and multi-chip
interconnect, used extensively at
component and sub-system level within
the Telecommunications and Defence
Electronics market. Microwave circuit
boards are manufactured in prototype
and medium to high volumes for major
telecommunications, military and space
system customers worldwide.
Labtech Circuits’ technology is based
on processing high performance PTFE
microwave substrates with plated
through holes. Circuits can be bonded
together in a multilayer construction
and include precision machined metal
backing for high frequency applications
such as broadband digital radio links,
microwave power amplifiers and
phased array radar antennas.
Labtech Microwave exploits its 17
years’ experience to manufacture a
range of high-end broadband
microwave components mainly for the
European defence market. Using high
accuracy thin film ceramic circuit
manufacturing capability, Labtech
Microwave concentrates on designing
and manufacturing MultiOctave
microwave amplifiers, switches and
detector log video amplifiers (DLVAs).
The division operates out of a highly
equipped modern factory in Milton
Keynes, which also includes a 4,000 sq.
ft. clean room. This now includes a fully
automatic chip placement and auto
wire bonding capability. Labtech
Microwave and Labtech Circuits have
worked successfully together to design
and develop a new range of microwave
products which includes broadband
PIN switches, low cost gain modules
and high performance DLVAs.
The combination of precision circuit
machining (including laser technology),
advanced automatic chemical
processing and MMIC packaging,
assembly and test gives Labtech a
leading world-class capability in the
microwave printed circuit board and
component markets.
Sales £8.3m (2006: £10.2m)
Operating Loss £(0.5)m (2006: Profit £0.7m)
Brian Mazonas Managing Director
Labtech MMIC packages going through automatic
wire bonding www.intelek.plc.uk 10
Microwave Circuits
and Components Labtech
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
The sales reduction from £10.2 million to
£8.3 million was attributable to our
circuits operation where long-established
production programmes in the
telecommunications market experienced
a faster than expected downturn,
especially in the first and last quarters.
Sales to Labtech’s two largest telecoms
customers reduced by £2 million with
telecom sales overall down by £2.7
million. Despite taking action to reduce
costs during the year, the sales shortfall
resulted in a trading loss of £0.48 million.
The Mobile Telecoms market has been
the most important sector for Labtech for
many years, but volume and margins
continue to reduce due to global
competitive pressures and the increasing
availability of Asian suppliers. At the end
of the year a restructuring programme
was actioned which will reduce the cost
base and enable the business to move
forward more profitably to address our
chosen specialist markets.
We predicted the decline in the market
some time ago but did not expect the
significant step change which occurred
during the year. During the last two years
we have been changing the Labtech
business model to become an integrated
supplier of specialist microwave circuits,
assembled circuits and fully designed,
manufactured and tested microwave
components, targeting the Defence,
Telecommunication, SatCom and Space
markets. During the year, Labtech
reduced its dependency on the highly
competitive volume Telecoms market
and now concentrates its resources on
manufacturing more complex high
frequency microwave circuits.
The combination of Labtech’s advanced
printed circuit board capability with
microwave design, manufacturing and
test expertise is unique within the
industry and is proving successful within
the Defence market. Labtech is involved
in a number of AESA (Active Electronic
Scanned Array) phased radar
programmes within Europe and this
product area is set to develop to
significant levels of business in the
coming years. Labtech’s established
capability in producing low cost
Mobile phone mast packed with microwave PCBs
and components Intelek
Report and Accounts 2007
11
Artist’s impression of the new T45 frigate for which Labtech’s DLVAs have been selected
packages for miniature semiconductor
MMICs (Monolithic Microwave Integrated
Circuits) is also a key part of the business.
The larger part of this packaging activity
is aimed at the USA where Labtech
targets the specialist GaAs (Gallium
Arsenide) semiconductor manufacturers.
During 2006 Labtech invested £300,000
in fully automatic chip placement and
wire bonding equipment which enables
us to assemble fragile GaAs MMICs into
the various packages. New product
development work at Labtech came to
fruition during the year where our new
high performance DLVA (Detector Log
Video Amplifier) gained much interest in
the defence markets in Europe and
beyond. A £0.23 million DLVA order was
received from a major international
organisation in the closing months of the
financial year and this supplemented
other smaller orders received earlier.
Carefully targeted groundwork and
customer developments undertaken in
2006/07 are expected to result in some
significant contract awards which will
benefit the second half of 2007/8.
Further reductions are expected in
Telecom business levels which should be
broadly offset by increasing activity in
the Defence Electronics sector. The
organisational restructuring was
completed in the first month of the
current financial year and profitability
should return later in the year giving a
positive year end outcome.
Labtech has always taken pride in careful
husbandry of the local environment and
care of employees and has invested
heavily to ensure they minimise waste
and prevent damage to the environment.
Both sites at Labtech are approved to
the International Environmental Standard
ISO 14001.
2005 2006 2007
105
100
95
90
85
80
75
70
Sales/Head (£000)
2005 2006 2007
10.0
9.5
9.0
8.5
8.0
7.5
7.0
6.5
6.0
5.5
5.0
40
30
20
10
0
–10
–20
ROCE
Stock turns per annum
%
2005 2006 2007
The result for the year is reflected in
these ratios, although the full year benefit
of the action taken to mitigate the impact
of the 18% fall in Sales will not show
through until 2007/08.
Labtech designed ERDLVA used in
systems to detect incoming threats www.intelek.plc.uk 12
Aerostructures CML
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
Sales £11.7m (2006: £11.0m)
Operating Profit £1.6m (2006: £1.1m)
Geoff Stewart Managing Director
CML manufactures machined,
composite and sheet metal
components and assemblies for
aerostructures and aircraft systems.
Its customers include Airbus UK, BAE
Systems, GKN Aerospace, Hawker
Beechcraft, Smiths Aerospace and
Westland Helicopters.
The group has four divisions located on
two sites in Birkenhead in the North
West of England.
The Precision Machining Division
is focused on 4 and 5-axis machining of
aluminium and hard metals. Principal
products, covering almost the full range
of Airbus commercial and military
aircraft, include interspar ribs and
ancillary components; landing gear rib
supports, sidestay fittings and links;
underwing access panels; engine thrust
fittings and aft mounting brackets.
Components for military and rotary
wing aircraft are also supplied to other
customers.
The Composites Division specialises
in the manufacture and repair of glass
and carbon fibre components and
assemblies. Products include various
wing and fuselage fairings, covers, and
panels, nose and tail cone assemblies,
air-conditioning ducts, flooring, etc.
The largest new build programme is
the Hawker 800XP business jet
whilst spares and other new build
requirements are supplied for a variety
of civil, business and military aircraft
programmes.
The Fabrication Division’s two main
revenue streams are from the
manufacture of extruded fuselage and
wing stringers for the Hawker 800XP
build programme and from its position
as a key supplier of sheet metal spare
parts for the Airbus in-service fleet. The
installation of the division’s first CNC
Router in 2007 will considerably
enhance their current capabilities.
The Treatments Division provides a
comprehensive in-house surface
treatments capability not only to the
other three divisions but also to a
valuable external customer base.
Gear-rib, part of the landing gear for the A320 CML performed extremely well in
2006/07 with operating profit improving
by some 45% on the previous year on a
sales increase of 6%. Improvements in
operating performance, combined with
sound financial management, have
seen gross margins improve with a
consequential increase in return on
capital employed to 46% (2006: 36%).
As a consequence, the return on sales
was 13.5% and enabled the business to
invest £0.8 million in new equipment.
The Precision Machining Division saw
the benefit of the increase in build rates
for Airbus aircraft, which, combined with
sales to new customers, including
Mecachrome and APPH, accounted for
75% of the growth in sales for CML.
Turnover for our Fabrications Division
grew by some 29% predominantly
through additional sales for in-service
spares, while our Treatments Division
continued to provide excellent service in
support of our internal requirements and,
in addition, grew third party sales by
12.5%.
Sales for Composites were down by
6.5% on the previous year due to a
timing issue with orders expected
earlier in the year. These orders have
now been received and have enabled
CML to start the new financial year with
a Composites’ order book standing at
£3 million. Given the industry’s migration
towards lighter composite structures,
we are investing in developing our
composites capability.
We have accepted an invitation to join
the North West Aerospace Supplier
Excellence programme. The scheme,
supported by Airbus, BAE Systems and
Rolls-Royce, is a significant opportunity
for us to improve further the performance
of the company. In addition, we have
now put in place systems in accordance
with the ISO 14001 Environmental
Management System and shall be
seeking accreditation by the end of
2007/08.
Intelek
Report and Accounts 2007
13
Our business development strategy is to
gain new business from our existing
customer base whilst looking for
diversification through targeting new
customers and programmes both in the
UK and overseas. It has been particularly
encouraging that relationships built over
the year with companies in France, such
as Mecachrome and Aircelle, are now
yielding results, and with our plans to
strengthen our sales team we expect to
maintain our position as an efficient and
profitable supplier in a continuing strong
aerospace market.
Hawker Beechcraft 800, a popular business jet, for which CML supplies a range of composite parts www.intelek.plc.uk 14
Aerostructures CML
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
2005 2006 2007
70
65
60
55
50
Sales/Head (£000)
2005 2006 2007
9.0
8.0
7.0
6.0
5.0
50
40
30
20
10
0
ROCE
Order Book £m (12 months)
%
2005 2006 2007
Headcount and capital investment increased to cater for the rise in demand,
whilst cost efficiencies overall raised profit at a faster level, with ROCE rising as a
consequence. Order Book for delivery in the next 12 months closed at a similar level
to last year, covering a large portion of sales projected for 2007/08.
Airbus A320, CML’s largest programme
400
300
200
100
0
A320 Family Deliveries per year
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Paradise Datacom enjoyed a very
successful year in 2006/07. Their high
power amplifiers have been achieving
increasing uptake in the marketplace
over the last three years. They are now,
arguably, the leading US-based supplier
of amplifiers which places them in a
strong position to win an increasing
share of government backed
programmes. The RF development
programmes will continue to expand our
product range at the top and bottom end
of our power levels, always providing
that an acceptable margin can be
targeted from the new products. We will
continue to develop our modem range
and enhance the features to allow
differentiation between ourselves and
our competitors. Consequently, we
expect to continue to see growth in
Paradise Datacom’s global presence
and financial performance.
The restructuring programme at Labtech
should enable the business to break
even in the first six months of the year
and move into profit in the second six
months. There is much work still to be
done in changing the emphasis in
Labtech’s product and customer
portfolio but the strategy is clear, the
determination is there and early signs
are encouraging.
At CML, their major programmes over
the next year will continue to be the
Airbus A320 and the Hawker Beechcraft
corporate jet. Both these programmes
have increased substantially over the
past two years and are expected to
continue strongly. CML will also continue
to invest in plant and equipment thereby
increasing their capacity and productivity
across the company.
Intelek
Report and Accounts 2007
15
Outlook
We will continue to manage the Group’s
exposure to the Defined Benefit Pension
Scheme with the dual objective of
meeting the obligations to Scheme
members whilst minimising the cost to
the Group.
In my report last year, I concluded that
the opportunities available to Intelek
within our existing markets looked
exciting. This was certainly true of
Paradise Datacom and CML. This is still
the case for these companies and with a
recovery at Labtech we look forward to a
further year of improved performance.
Ian D Brodie
Chief Executive
5 June 2007
Latest amplifier product, a direct replacement for TWTAs
