 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Paradise Datacom benefited from the
sales of both the amplifier and modem
product ranges growing by 20%.
2006/07 was the first full financial year
availability of the new Evolution high data
rate modem with major success being
achieved in the supply of products to the
Far East. As a consequence, Paradise
Datacom’s operating profits increased by
41% to £3.0 million.
Operating profits at CML increased by
45% to £1.6 million as a result of their
continued attention to production
efficiency, customer service and
broadening their customer base.
Labtech produced an operating loss of
£0.48 million due to a severe downturn in
the telecommunications market with a
number of their major customers de-
stocking in the final quarter. As a number
of these programmes are also reaching
the end of their product life, an asset
impairment and restructuring review was
carried out at the year end. We are
continuing to move the business away
from commodity markets into specialist
microwave packaged solutions and
products and I anticipate that the
business will return to profitability in
2007/08.
Introduction
I am very pleased to report strong growth
of 30% in the Company’s underlying
profit before tax (£2.34 million in 2007)
with two out of our three business
segments performing extremely well. The
strength of Paradise Datacom’s satellite
modems and amplifier sales to a growing
range of international customers was
evident as was CML’s increasing
reputation as a highly reliable
aerostructures supplier into the Airbus
A320 and Raytheon Hawker 800
programmes.
Results
Sales for the year increased by 4.6% to
£36.8 million. Overall gross margins
increased from 27.7% to 28.9%.
Earnings per share from the underlying
profit of the Group increased 31% to
2.05p compared with the previous year’s
figure of 1.56p. Total borrowings
increased by £1.7 million after paying
£2.6 million in enhanced pension transfer
payments. With the total deficit on the
Defined Benefit Pension Scheme reduced
to £5.3 million (2006: £13.0 million), the
balance sheet, therefore, showed a
reduction in borrowings/pension deficit of
£6 million, a significant improvement
during the year.
David Bramwell
www.intelek.plc.uk 2 As reported at the Interims, an enhanced
transfer option was offered to certain
deferred and employee members of the
Defined Benefit Pension Scheme. The
full year effect of this and the de-linking
of final salary has been a reduction of
£6.8 million in the pension deficit at a
cost to the Group of £2.8 million. After
taking account of this one-off gain of
£4.0 million on the pension transfer
project and £0.7 million of restructuring
costs, mainly at Labtech, the full year
profit before tax on continuing operations
was £5.6 million (2006: £1.8 million).
Dividend
The Board is recommending an
increased final dividend of 0.26p (2006:
0.24p) per Ordinary share, increasing the
total dividend by 8.3% to 0.39p (2006:
0.36p). If approved at the Annual General
Meeting on 14 September 2007, this final
dividend will be paid on 26 September
2007 to shareholders on the register at
the close of business on 31 August 2007.
Transfer to AIM
Intelek completed its transfer of trading
in Ordinary Shares to AIM in December
2006 with a view to lowering the costs
and regulatory burden of the Listing and
to agreeing and executing transactions
more quickly.
Strategy
Our strategy continues to be centred on
the development of our businesses in the
communications industry and, in
particular, the satellite segment of that
industry. We intend to develop shareholder
value by continuing to build an integrated
Group with a significant share of niche
global markets in our specific field of
communications and to develop a
profitable and growing aerostructures
business. We aim to grow organically
within our chosen markets by sound
investment in product development,
capital equipment and enhanced
geographic coverage. We will continue to
encourage continuous professional
development of our staff supplemented,
where necessary, by the recruitment of
key additional skills. Our organic growth
will be supplemented by suitable
acquisitions within our core activity as and
when the right opportunity is identified.
People
As ever, the skill, commitment and
enthusiasm of all our staff are key to the
ongoing success of the Group and, on
behalf of the Board, I would like to record
my sincere thanks to them for their
loyalty and valued contributions during
the year.
Prospects
Paradise Datacom is beginning to be
recognised as one of the leading solid
state power amplifier and modem
suppliers to the satellite communications
industry. Continued development of new
products, reduced costs of
manufacturing and a global marketing
strategy will underpin further growth. We
believe we have taken the necessary
action to reduce the cost base at
Labtech to enable a return to break even
in the first six months and to profit in the
second half. We will continue to move
away from commodity products and into
specialist microwave packages and
components which enhance both
margins and intellectual property. The
aerospace market remains buoyant in
the programmes in which CML is
engaged and, consequently, their level of
profit contribution should continue at a
similar or slightly higher level. Taken
together, I expect to see continuing
growth in our performance and we look
forward to the future with confidence.
David M Bramwell
Chairman
5 June 2007
Intelek
Report and Accounts 2007
3
Evolution modems in one of the Tibet ground stations Location in Tibet for our largest ever modem order
