 £5.1 million). Sales for the financial year
reduced by £0.9 million largely due to
the effect of the weakening dollar on the
conversion of Paradise Datacom's US
dollar sales. Despite taking account of
some more conservative views on life
expectancy, the pension scheme deficit
reduced by £0.1 million to £5.2 million.
This was not helped by having to fund
the Government’s Pension Protection 
Fund which this year cost the Group
close to £0.1 million. 
Paradise Datacom, our satellite amplifier
and modem business, continued to
improve profitability, albeit on lower
sales. Even after incorporating the
£0.3 million negative effect of the
weaker dollar on profit translation,
operating profit was up £0.2 million
on the previous financial year at
£3.2 million, representing a healthy
return on sales of 21%.
Labtech Microwave, our microwave
components and manufacturing
services business, reshaped its cost
base at the beginning of the financial
year and, with the benefit of some
encouraging wins in the phased array
radar market, turned a £0.5 million loss
in the previous year into an operating
profit of £0.2 million in 2007/08. It is
encouraging that the new business
model at Labtech Microwave is meeting
with success in winning projects which
require the expertise and capability of
both the Presteigne and Milton Keynes
sites, a factor which gives Labtech
Microwave a competitive edge over
other suppliers.
CML, our aerostructures company,
continued to go from strength to
strength with operating profit in the year
to 31 March 2008 a further 12% higher
than the previous year. CML's main
programmes are robust and relate to the
supply of structural parts for the Airbus
A320, Hawker Beechcraft 800-series
corporate jet and the C27 military
transporter. CML continued to develop
their Composites business and, in
particular, gained approval and the first
production order to supply parts for the
Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) programme.
Dividend
Following the improved profitability of the
Group, the Board is recommending an
increased final dividend of 0.30p (2007:
0.26p) per ordinary share, increasing the
total dividend by 15.4% to 0.45p (2007:
0.39p). If approved at the Annual General
Meeting on 12 September 2008, this final
dividend will be paid on 24 September
2008 to shareholders on the register at
the close of business on 29 August 2008.
Introduction
I am very pleased to report continued
significant improvement in the
performance of the Group for the year to
31 March 2008. Underlying profit before
tax increased by 41% on the back of a
30% rise in the previous financial year
although the Income Statement for the
prior year to 31 March 2007 did include
exceptional net gains of £3.3 million.
Earnings per share from the underlying
profit of the Group improved by 36% to
2.78p (basic) and net debt was reduced
by 25% to £3.9 million.
All of our businesses performed well
and contributed to this increase in profit.
Paradise Datacom’s margins continued
to benefit from improved product design
and CML capitalised on higher volumes
and an ongoing commitment to lean
manufacture. However, it was Labtech
Microwave, following a review of the
business, which produced the most
significant result, turning a £0.5 million
trading loss in 2006/07 into a profit
approaching £0.2 million.
Results
Overall margins continued to improve,
with gross margins increasing by 2% to
30.9% of sales. Net borrowings at the
year-end reduced to £3.9 million (2007:
Chairman’s Statement
4
Intelek 
Report and Accounts 2008
Chairman’s
Statement 
David Bramwell
“All of our businesses performed well. I am confident
that we will continue to make progress, despite the
current challenging economic conditions.” Strategy
Our strategy is to continue to focus on
the development of our businesses in
the communications industry and, in
particular, the satellite segment of that
industry. We intend to develop
shareholder value by building an
integrated group with a significant share
of niche global communications markets
and the further development of our
profitable and growing aerostructures
business. We intend to grow organically
within our chosen markets by sound
investment in product development,
capital equipment and increased
geographic coverage. We will continue
to encourage the professional
development of our staff, enhanced,
where necessary, by the recruitment of
key additional skills. To supplement our
organic growth, we are actively seeking
suitable acquisitions within our core
areas of activity.
People
Once again, on behalf of the Board, I
would like to record my sincere thanks
to all of our staff for their dedication and
significant contribution during the year.
Their skill, commitment and enthusiasm
are very much key to the ongoing
success of the Group.
Outlook
Paradise Datacom continues to extend
its technology-leading market position
in solid state power amplifiers and has
recently launched a new lower data rate
version of the Evolution modem, which
will soon be joined by the new Vision 80
modem, extending our addressable
market into the digital broadcasting
sector. This and other investments in
new products will, together with the
development of our sales and marketing
network in China and the Far East,
enable us to attack the satellite
communications equipment market on a
much broader front.
Labtech Microwave has taken a major
stride forward in the past year and,
while there are still further improvements
to be made, progress to date has been
very encouraging. The defence market
has now replaced telecommunications
as Labtech Microwave's largest market
following the success of the previously
mentioned phased array radar projects
and of the detector log video amplifiers
which are used on a number of
platforms for detecting incoming
threats.
CML continues to offer a first-class
service to its major customers and will
benefit not only from participating in its
BAe Systems’ Commander radar, using active electronically scanned array (AESA) technology, a new market area for Labtech
www.intelek.plc.uk 5
current strong commercial aircraft
programmes but also in the recent
addition of the growing JSF project. We
intend to invest further in developing the
composites division in order to take
advantage of the trend towards more
fuel efficient and environmentally
friendly aircraft. 
Overall, I am encouraged by the steps
our businesses have taken to broaden
their product range, increase customer
numbers and develop a more global
footprint. I am confident that we will
continue to make progress, despite the
current challenging economic
conditions.
David M Bramwell
Chairman
9 June 2008
