 Intelek
Report and Accounts 2009
04
Chairman’s
Statement 
David Bramwell
16329 22/07/2009 Proof 6
Chairman’s Statement
 Intr oduction
I am pleased to report further significant
improvement in the performance of the
Group during a year which witnessed
an unprecedented assault on the
economic and financial framework
of the industrialised world. Although we
have been by no means immune to the
global downturn, particularly in our final
quarter, we nevertheless finished the
year in line with market expectations
with underlying profit before tax at
£4.1 million, some 23% higher than
the previous financial year.
Results
Sales for the financial year increased
by 9% with the dollar rebounding to
account for £2.7 million of our year on
year growth in sales. Overall margins
held up well, with gross margins of
32% of sales (2008: 31% of sales).
The strengthening dollar contributed
to £0.5 million of the £0.8 million
improvement in underlying profit
before tax. Earnings per share from the
underlying profit of the Group improved
by 19% to 3.32p and net debt reduced
to £3.8 million, despite the strengthening
of the US dollar. This was largely due
to the record performance of Paradise
Datacom and CML, with operating profit
for both companies being 15% higher
than the previous year.
The strengthening dollar had the
opposite effect on borrowings, much of
which is denominated in dollars as a net
investment hedge. Borrowings reduced
by £0.7 million before increasing
£0.6 million for currency changes.
Paradise Datacom, our satellite amplifier
and modem business, had a successful
year, opening new engineering and
sales offices in Beijing, Bangkok and
Phoenix, Arizona. A number of significant
government product replacement
programmes were won which will benefit
Paradise Datacom for the next two to
three years. Our increased rate of new
product introduction and our extended
geographic coverage enabled Paradise
Datacom to record a further year of a
return on sales in excess of 20%.
Labtech Microwave, our microwave
components and manufacturing services
business, saw the expected reduction
in commercial telecommunication
sales offset by growth in defence and
security sales, though some of the
larger programmes we had expected
were delayed into 2009/10. Our share
of the phased array radar market has
continued to grow, with air traffic control
demand also showing promise. Our
continued reduction in exposure to the
commodity telecommunications markets
was replaced by specialist work enabling
Labtech Microwave to break even in
the year. We are still in the process of
reshaping the business to increase
intellectual property, make it more
responsive, leaner and set for growth.
This led to an exceptional restructuring
charge in the year of £0.4 million, which
includes an impairment charge for
surplus assets.
CML, our aerostructures company,
continued its run of improving operating
profit. Towards the end of the financial
year the general economic downturn
began to affect the schedules for
business and commercial jets. However,
there were positive advances being
made on the development programme
for Composites with additional orders
under the Joint Strike Fighter (JSF)
programme. Repairs and overhaul, a
higher margin area of activity, was also
a successful sector for CML in the past
12 months.
Dividend
The Board considers it prudent in the
current economic climate to maintain
the final dividend at 0.30p. This brings
the total dividend for the year to 0.465p
(2008: 0.45p). If approved at the Annual
General Meeting on 11 September 2009,
the final dividend will be paid on
23 September 2009 to shareholders
on the register at the close of business
on 28 August 2009.
“Further significant improvement in performance.
Difficult commercial backdrop but we are confident of 
resilient performance in the coming financial year.”
Chairman’s
Statement 
David Bramwell
16329INTELEK.indd   4 23/07/2009   13:33 www.intelek.plc.uk
16329 22/07/2009 Proof 6
05
Strategy
Our strategy is to develop our business
in the communications industry providing
technology for the transmission of voice,
video and data. Our focus is on the
defence, security, telecommunications
and broadcast sectors. We will also
continue to develop our profitable
aerostructures business. The Group
will grow organically within our chosen
markets through sound investment in
product development, capital equipment
and enhanced geographic coverage.
We will continue to encourage the
professional development of our staff,
enhanced, where necessary, by the
recruitment of key additional personnel
with complementary skills. In order to
supplement organic growth, we will
seek suitable acquisitions within our
core activity.
People
The skill, commitment and enthusiasm
of our employees are key to the ongoing
success of the Group. On behalf of the
Board, I would like to record my sincere
thanks to them for their loyalty and
valued contributions during the year.
Outlook
The extended geographic sales coverage
and the increased rate of new product
introduction will open up significant
new markets for Paradise Datacom,
though we may have to be patient
before seeing growth in the current
economic conditions. We expect some
considerable softening in commercial
satcoms in 2009/10 and will be
more reliant on winning contracts on
Government programmes, where
funding is still robust and increasing.
We are currently bidding on an extensive
range of programmes of considerable
value and will look to build on our
proven success in this area. In all, we
are projecting to maintain the sales level
following a slow start to the year which
we anticipate will gather momentum
towards the final quarter.
Labtech Microwave has seen some
strong order inflow in the first two
months of the current year and, although
activity levels will remain low in the first
six months, our restructuring should
be sufficient to enable a reasonable
profit at the half way stage. Due to the
nature of Labtech Microwave’s growing
focus on defence spend, the visibility
of programmes is much longer than it
was some two to three years ago. As a
consequence, the second six months of
the current year also look to be profitable
although the timing of order placement
on some of the defence and security
programmes, as ever, is critical.
In line with most aerospace suppliers
CML has suffered a significant reduction
of build rates in the corporate jet
market, whilst Airbus’ schedules remain
comparatively resilient. Overall, the
reduced business jet build schedule and
the investment in moving to an enlarged
composite facility will undoubtedly result
in a lowering of CML’s profits in 2009/10.
However, over the medium to long-term,
this new facility will allow us to capitalise
on significant opportunities in the
aerospace composites market, including
servicing the JSF build, the world’s
largest military jet programme.
Across the Group we have taken early
action to improve efficiency and reduce
costs against a difficult commercial
backdrop. Although CML is likely to
record a drop in revenues, we expect
Labtech Microwave to make good
progress in the current year. This,
together with the underlying strength
of Paradise Datacom and a reduction
in head office costs, gives us confidence
for a resilient performance in the coming
financial year.
David Bramwell
Chairman
10 June 2009
Paradise Datacom is supplying X-band amplifiers to the Norwegian Navy (©Torbjørn Kjosvold/The Norwegian Armed Forces)
16329INTELEK.indd   5 23/07/2009   13:33
