 “We have made further progress
towards our objective of becoming
the second largest cake supplier
in the UK.”
case study
CRAIG MAYO
factory manager
Craig has been with the Company
since it was formed in 1994.
During this time Craig has been
promoted to Section Leader, Shift
Manager, Production Manager and
most recently to Factory Manager
at the Shadsworth Bakery.
05 chairman’s statement It is with great pleasure that we are
presenting our fifth successive record
turnover, profit and earnings per share
since becoming a public company in
August 1998 and further progress towards
our objective of becoming the second
largest cake supplier in the UK. This is
a particularly notable achievement
considering the range of raw material price
increases which affected the input costs of
food manufacturers during the year. The
key highlights this year have been:
❖ Turnover and operating profit each
growing by 35%, underlining our
continuing growth in market share.
❖ Organic growth is nearly three times
greater than the increase in overall
market.
❖ The first full year of Soreen (2003: 3
months) which has delivered
improved profits and has enhanced
the Group’s profile with its customer
base.
❖ In January 2004 we completed the
acquisition of Farmhouse Bakery
Holdings Limited (‘Hoppers’) which
manufactures high quality cakes,
with a particular emphasis on
Christmas products. Since
acquisition, sales volumes have built
strongly.
❖ All our businesses have responded
positively to the impact of increased
raw material prices which affected
the food industry.
❖ The winning of the Disney licence for
small cakes reflects our growing
reputation in the marketing of
licensed products.
❖ Our continuing focus on and
success in product innovation is of
increasing importance in a
competitive marketplace.
Results
Turnover increased by 35.4% to £69.6
million (2003: £51.4million). Profit before
tax, excluding amortisation of goodwill,
increased 35.6% to £5.0 million (2003:
£3.7million) and adjusted earning per
share increased 7.6% to 38.2p (2003:
35.5p). Profit before tax increased 30% to
£3.9 million (2003: £3.0million) and basic
earnings per share increased 4.6% to
27.5p (2003: 26.3p).
Following the purchase of Hoppers for £5
million and capital expenditure throughout
the Group, the Group had net debt of
£19.8 million as at 7 May 2004 (2003:
£12.0 million) excluding any contingent
consideration, resulting in gearing of 94%
(2003: 64%).
Your Board is pleased to propose a final
dividend of 3.7p (2003: 3.3p) per share
making a total for the year of 5.55p
(2003: 5p). Subject to approval at the
Annual General Meeting, the final dividend
will be paid on 17 September 2004 to
those shareholders on the register at 20
August 2004.
Strategy
The Board has a stated objective of
becoming the number two supplier in the
UK cake market and the number one
private label supplier. This objective will
only be achieved by continued organic
growth through a combination of product
development, sector expertise and strong
customer relations, all of which are at the
heart of the Inter Link culture. As in the
past, this will be combined with well
targeted acquisitions.
Our objective of being the number two
supplier must be combined with the
generation of higher levels of profit. We
will endeavour to achieve this by
systematically reducing our manufacturing
costs through a combination of improved
buying of raw materials and packaging,
earnings enhancing capital expenditure
projects and strong manufacturing
controls. The improved operating margins
this year are evidence of our success in
this area. 
Trading
During the year our sales growth
excluding our last two acquisitions,
Soreen Limited and Farmhouse Bakery
Holdings Limited, has increased by 11%
which is tangible evidence of our ability to
achieve organic growth well above the
increase in the market overall.
In addition to this organic growth, the
Board has an excellent record of
acquiring and successfully integrating
complementary businesses. In January
2004 the Group acquired Hoppers, which
manufactures a range of cakes with a
strong emphasis on Christmas lines,
particularly mince pies. The acquisition of
Hoppers has enabled the Group to gain a
foothold in the significant Christmas
market for cake products, particularly
premium mince pies. This company has
historic sales of £12.5 million and also
has strong growth opportunities.
Staff
We continue to strengthen the
management teams by bringing in new
skills to the Group and are delighted to
report that internal promotions have filled
two senior management posts at factory
level. All our employees have worked
hard, with the commitment and team spirit
essential to produce the excellent results
announced today.
Prospects
The Group continues to win opportunities
to strengthen its business with its major
customers. Significant increased demand
for Hoppers' Christmas products has
required the investment at Shadsworth
Bakery, Blackburn in one of the most
automated and efficient production lines
in Europe. This will be making products
from September 2004.
Since the year end we have launched 3
new lines under the Disney brand and 24
under private label and we are very
encouraged by initial sales. Our factories
have been exceptionally busy and in the
first eight weeks sales show 16% growth
like for like and 31.2% including Hoppers.
This provides us with considerable
confidence for the year ahead.
Jeremy Hamer
Chairman
12 July 2004
06
