 Strategy
In order to achieve strategic objectives,
and to be in the best position to meet
the changing needs of the consumer, we
have continued in our quest to grow
organically and consolidate our position
through acquisition. With nine successful
acquisitions since our formation in 1994,
we have significantly raised the profile of
the Group and our reputation with
customers, and created a strong,
balanced portfolio of private label,
branded and licensed products,
supporting our aim of becoming a
supplier of increasing importance to the
major retailers, wholesalers and
independents.
The Market
(TNS data 52 w/e 28 March 2004) 
The total cake market (ambient and
chilled) is showing steady growth in
value terms of 3.8%. This growth has
been driven by an increase in average
price and a shift towards premium
products within the market, thus
heightening our focus on improving
product quality and added value. In-
store Bakery goods represent 14.3% of
the ambient cake market in value terms
and this too has seen 6% growth year
on year. Healthy cakes now account for
2.4% of the ambient cake market and
this sector is growing rapidly at 18.5%
year on year. In a congested
marketplace, innovation has become the
key to achieving growth, with the private
label sector outperforming most brands
in value terms. This year, the Group
Innovations Team has continued to work
closely with key retailers to develop new
and exciting private label ranges.
Sales
The Group has seen excellent results
this year, with turnover increasing by
35.4% to £69.6m (from £51.4m in
2003). Double-digit organic sales growth
of 11% complements the success of
Hoppers and Soreen. By continuing to
focus all our commercial efforts on the
cake sector, and by supporting and
developing our 8 bakeries, we will
continue to provide the manufacturing
expertise within the sector that our wide
customer base demands.
Acquisition Update
In January 2004 we were pleased to
announce the purchase of “Hoppers”,
based in Herne Bay, Kent. An
established business, owned and
managed by 6 generations of the
Hopper family, the company has a well-
deserved reputation for the production of
high quality cakes with a strong
emphasis on Christmas lines, particularly
premium mince pies. The acquisition
was extremely well received by the
07 chief executive’s review “We have significantly raised the profile
of the group and our reputation, having created
a strong balanced portfolio of private label,
branded and licensed products.”
case study
AMANDA SHERRATT
director of technical
services
Amanda joined Inter Link Foods
seven years ago. Amanda’s role
involves managing the technical
staff at each site to ensure that
food safety standards meet the
stringent requirements of the
Group and its customers.
08 trade, such that Hoppers products are
now in demand from most of the major
retailers and orders for mince pies this
Christmas are forecast at more than
double last year’s. Together with a
heightened focus on new product
development to counterbalance its
seasonal manufacturing bias, we are
confident that with the support of Inter
Link Foods, the business is now well
positioned to capitalise on its
considerable potential for further growth.
The acquisition of Soreen, producer of
the number one malt loaf brand, in
February 2003 has also helped to
deliver strong profits and provided the
Group with a significant foothold in the
branded arena. We are delighted with
the benefits that this purchase has
brought to the Group.
Operations
In operational terms, our continued focus
is to become an even lower cost
operator, by improving productivity,
efficiency, quality and value. As such, we
will continue to invest to achieve this
objective across the Group. In response
to the significant growth in demand for
Hoppers products, Shadsworth Bakery
in Blackburn is preparing to install one of
the most automated production lines in
Europe. This £2.6million investment will
be the Group’s largest capital project to
date exceeding in value four of our
acquisitions. It will allow the site to
produce quality products efficiently, at
more than double current levels of
output. Furthermore, additional
investment has been made at all our
Bakeries to improve productivity and
also to ensure quality is consistently
improving.
Summary
This year is the 10th anniversary of the
birth of the Company, so it is extremely
pleasing to be recognised as the “Most
Entrepreneurial Company” by our peers,
through the Entrepreneur Magazine
Awards. Since flotation in August 1998,
our sales have increased 709% from
£8.6million to £69.6million, and this
year’s profit before tax and amortisation
stands at £5 million, some twelve times
larger than six years ago just before
flotation. With the support of a
committed management team and a
successful growth model, Inter Link
Foods is in its strongest position yet to
achieve its strategic objectives, and I am
confident in our ability to achieve long-
term shareholder growth.
Alwin Thompson
Chief Executive
12 July 2004
09 chief executive’s review continued “Since flotation in August 1998,
our sales have increased 709%
from £8.6 million to
£69.6 million.”
case study
NEIL WATSON
mixing section leader
Neil has worked at Soreen Bakery
for over 30 years. During his time,
he has carried out many roles. Neil
said “Soreen is a much loved
British brand, since I joined the
business we have seen a great
deal of technological advancement
and many new products have
been added to the range. To this
day, there is no other company
that can make a malt loaf like
Soreen.”
10
