 06
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
“OUR RELENTLESS FOCUS ON
‘BAKING GREAT CAKES’
PROVIDES EVERYONE IN THE
GROUP WITH A SINGLE
PURPOSE AND FOCAL POINT TO
ACHIEVE THE BEST WE CAN . . .”
INTRODUCTION
The Group has continued to enjoy significant
success in pursuing its strategy. During the
year the Group became number two in cake
supply by turnover in the UK. This has been
achieved following a 40.9% increase in sales
and a 18% increase in profits before tax and
goodwill amortisation. The business
continues to benefit from an ongoing capital
expenditure programme which again helped
to deliver double digit like for like sales
performance, driven by higher levels of
innovation and greater productivity. The
acquisition of Cukiernia Mistrza Jana, our first
venture into Eastern Europe, in December
and of Yorkshire Cottage Bakeries in January
contributed to encouraging sales growth.
However, the best is yet to come. The most
significant achievement was the pleasing
14.1% like for like increase in sales, which
was made at a time when the retail market
experienced tougher trading conditions
alongside stronger comparative figures from
the previous year. 
Our relentless focus on “Baking Great
Cakes” provides everyone in the Group with
a single purpose and focal point to achieve
the best we can — no matter how tough the
challenge. This inbred culture of stretching
and striving and always finding a better way
of doing practically anything is at the heart of
the Group and serves us well.
THE MARKET
(TNS data 52 weeks w/e 24 April 2005)
The total cake market (ambient and chilled) is
showing steady growth in value terms of 6%.
This growth has been driven by an increase
in average price and a continuing shift
towards premium products within the market.
This trend is set to continue as focus is
directed at added value product
opportunities. Trends also suggest that
consumers are increasing their frequency of
purchase of cakes and are actually doing so
at a higher price. In-store bakery products
continue to grow with a 4.4% increase year
on year. 
Innovation remains absolutely key to
maintaining sensible growth, with retailer
brands outperforming manufacturer brands, a
trend which is set to continue. The
importance of innovation has not been lost
on your Group and therefore we have
doubled the Innovations Team resource in the
year, to ensure we capitalise on all of the
opportunities that are presented to us.
SALES
The Group has seen positive results this year,
with sales increasing by 40.9% year on year
and by 14% on a like for like basis. This
performance should be measured by a
market that grew by 6% and is therefore a
particularly pleasing performance all round.
Double digit organic growth complements the
success of more recent acquisitions and
reflects the hard work and commitment of
everyone working in each of the Group’s 12
bakeries including Cukiernia Mistrza Jana.
Our strategy is to work alongside our
customers and sell a balanced portfolio of
retailer brands, brands we own and licensed
products which historically have positively
contributed to our growth. Looking back to
2003 it is recognised that the acquisition of
Soreen brand has added greatly to the
Group portfolio. Soreen malt loaf is far and
away the market leader and with its snack
products and with increasing consumer
demand, the business has never been in a
better position to maximise growth
opportunities for the brand.
OPERATIONS
Business focus is centred on improving all
manufacturing processes and during the year
we have invested in all bakeries in the Group
to improve productivity and efficiency levels. It
is recognised that capital investment should
dovetail into the consolidation of the number
of bakeries we operate. Therefore, the
announcement that the Group is to close its
bakeries at Newton House (Dewsbury) and
Crossfield Foods (Blackburn) where Inter Link
Foods began life in 1994, serves as a reminder
that efficiency and productivity are important for
us all.
Inter Link Foods PLC In the year, process improvement and
efficiency have been the hallmarks that we
have sought to encourage. Our latest initiative
to invest in an additional new bakery
alongside our 2001 new build bakery in
Blackburn will create a facility that is capable
of producing some 26,000 individual fruit
pies per hour. This most efficient facility with
its automated equipment, coupled with our
no compromise focus on quality, provides
confidence in the future.
The central buying team established in
2003 continues to generate very real benefits
for the Group and are enthusiastic about
prospects for the future. In all our bakeries
we have invested in additional high calibre
individuals to ensure we are in a good
position to capitalise on future prospects. The
investment in people remains pivotal to our
future growth.
DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE
The growth of the Group has been outstanding
and none of this would have been possible
without the total involvement and continuing
support of our people. Training schemes and
management development initiatives have all
contributed to the improved performance of the
entire business — building on this success
remains a priority.
SUMMARY
Profit has grown encouragingly over the years
and management’s overall goal remains very
focused on enhancing shareholder value.
We remain confident that the management
team is well placed to ensure continued
growth and we are confident of achieving
our objectives.
Paul Griffiths
Chief Executive
13 July 2005
INVESTING IN MANUFACTURING
Our latest initiative to invest in an
additional new bakery alongside our 2001
new build bakery in Blackburn will create a
facility that is capable of producing some
26,000 individual fruit pies per hour.
07 Annual report 2005
