 02
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
“AS RELATIONSHIPS WITH
CUSTOMERS ARE
STRENGTHENED AND WE
BECOME AN EVEN MORE
IMPORTANT SUPPLIER,
UNDERPINNED BY OUR
CULTURE OF GOOD SERVICE,
GOOD QUALITY AND VALUE
FOR MONEY, THE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR NEW
BUSINESS HAVE NEVER BEEN
STRONGER.”
I am pleased to announce that this is our
sixth successive record year of turnover,
profits and earnings per share since joining
AIM in August 1998. 
It has also been my first year as Chairman
and I take great pleasure in confirming that
we are now number two by turnover in the
UK Cake Market.
In partnership with our leading customers,
we have built a reputation for being a
responsive, innovative business. Our strength
going forward is founded on delivering high
quality service and excellent, value-for-money
products to our multiple retail customers and
ultimately the consumers.
It has been an unparalleled year of
substantial growth and progress in both
financial and strategic terms.
•
Turnover has increased by 40.9% to
£98.1m
•
Profit before tax has increased by 14.4%
to £4.5m
•
EBITDA has increased by 27.9% to £9.8m
•
EBITA has increased by 23.6% to £7.3m
•
Like for like sales growth excluding
acquisitions has risen by 14.1%
•
In December 2004, we acquired 
Poland-based Cukiernia Mistrza Jana.
Since acquisition, our focus has been 
to develop a range of products
manufactured in Poland for UK
distribution. This has been achieved,
resulting in eight products being
successfully launched by April and
ensuring substantial growth within 
this business. 
•
In January 2005 we acquired Yorkshire
Cottage Bakeries and Jessie Oldfield, 
and they have been trading well since
their acquisition.
•
We have entered into an agreement 
to lease a new 50,000 sq ft bakery in
Blackburn adjacent to our existing site. 
It will become operational at the beginning 
of August 2005. 
•
This year, we have successfully launched
over 200 new products into a highly
competitive marketplace. Our commitment
to innovation is central to our success and
has assisted us in achieving a 40.9%
increase in turnover. 
•
We expect to nearly double our mince pie
production for this forthcoming Christmas.
Hoppers (acquired in 2004), Jessie
Oldfield (acquired in 2005) and recent
capital expenditure have all added
significantly to our seasonality. In 2003,
Hoppers produced 35 million mince pies
which rose to 65 million in 2004 and our
confirmed orders for 2005 have already
topped 120 million.
•
This has been an unparalleled year for us
in terms of our trading achievements, but
it has also been a year in which we have
built the infrastructure, production
capability and skill base to enable us to
manage most effectively our high level of
growth. In summary, achievements in this
area include the following:
•
We have completed two acquisitions
that have brought additional profits and
capacity into the Group.
•
We have introduced the strategic
objective of consolidating our
operations onto fewer, more cost-
effective sites, the major benefits 
and savings from which will be
delivered over the next few years.
•
We have strengthened our Board of
directors with the appointment of 
Chris Thompson as Finance Director
and strong experienced management
have been introduced to manage our 
growth in all areas of the business.
•
We have finalised the planning for our
new Blackburn bakery and will start
production there in August 2005. 
•
We have maintained our capital
expenditure programme to enable us
to continue to be a low cost producer.
Inter Link Foods PLC •
New IT systems are now being
introduced into all areas of the
business — these will be fully in place
by January 2006 and will provide
significantly improved management
information.
•
A record number of new products
have been introduced throughout 
the Group. 
Your Board is pleased to propose a final
dividend of 4.3p (2004: 3.7p) per share
making a total for the year of 6.45p (2004:
5.55p), an increase of 16.2%. Subject to
approval at the Annual General Meeting, the
final dividend will be paid on 16 September
2005 to those shareholders on the register 
at 19 August 2005.
RESULTS
•
Turnover increased by 40.9% to £98.1m
(2004: £69.6m)
•
Profit before tax has increased by 14.4%
to £4.5m (2004: £3.9m)
•
EBITDA increased by 27.9% to £9.8m
(2004: £7.7m)
•
EBITA increased by 23.6% to £7.3m
(2004: £5.9m)
•
Profit before tax and goodwill increased by
18% to £5.9m (2004: £5.0m)
•
Adjusted earnings per share up 10.2% to
42.1p (2004: 38.2p)
•
Basic earnings per share increased by
5.8% to 29.1p (2004: 27.5p)
•
Dividend per share up 16.2% to 6.45p
(2004: 5.55p)
STRATEGY
Since flotation in 1998, we have successfully
acquired nine businesses, all of which have
shown strong organic growth. We will further
our acquisitions strategy by continuing to
search for businesses where we can add
value, at a realistic cost to our business.
STRENGTHENING OUR TEAM
We have strengthened our Board of
directors and strong experienced
management have been introduced to
manage our growth in all areas of 
the business.
03 Annual report 2005 04
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT (continued)
However, we now believe that the core
strategy that we have maintained in our early
years of maintaining small, autonomous units
may have run its course — it is now
appropriate for us to introduce some
consolidation of our sites in order to allow
more focused investment and to simplify the
management task. Our medium-term target is
therefore a reduction in the number of
operating sites. The consolidation process
has already commenced and this will result in
considerable cost savings which will be
realised over the coming years. We are ever
mindful of our reputation as a low cost
producer and consolidation will provide
efficiency benefits and increased productivity. 
I am delighted to report that we have
achieved our aim of becoming number two
cake supplier by turnover in the UK. Our new
critical mass is highly beneficial to the
business in terms of our buying power and it
enhances our reputation with customers as a
leading fast growing bakery business.
Innovation is the lifeblood of our business;
it is where we add volume, value and margin.
We have launched more products this year
than ever before and our acquisitions have
grown through timely new product
development. The acquisition of Cukiernia
Mistrza Jana provided an enormous
opportunity for new products. We are
growing this business through capital
expenditure and sales introductions and have
already launched eight products for
distribution throughout the UK. We continue
to invest in innovation and as a result, our
New Product Development teams across the
Group have almost doubled in size this year.
Our team at Creative Cake Company
continue to negotiate for the best licences for
all Group businesses. This year they have
secured the exclusive licences for Scooby
Doo, Batman and Jacqueline Wilson.
As our technical teams have been
strengthened, we welcome Behi Barzegar to
the Group as Technical Director. We place as
paramount, our responsibility to manufacture
food within the correct hygiene and food
safety procedures. Technical competence is
imperative to the future growth of the
business, and this inspires confidence both
within the business and with our customers.
We are investing £0.6m over 3 years in
improving our IT and management information
systems. From July 2005, all managers will
be able to access additional new data. These
systems are being implemented at all levels
across the business and the benefits will
include improved planning and loading of
factories, reduced labour costs, increased
productivity and lower waste. 
TRADING
During the year, our like for like sales have
increased by 14.1%. This continues to
demonstrate our ability to grow our core
businesses. I am also delighted to report that
the two new acquisitions are proving to be
highly successful. Cukiernia Mistrza Jana is a
70,000 sq ft, well-invested site with a highly
skilled and dedicated workforce. Our strategy
is to continue to grow this business by
serving European retail multiples and also
producing products for the UK. This business
is now largely integrated within the Group and
is successfully serving our customers. We
have already launched, in record time, eight
new products into the UK — products that
would have generated very low margins if
manufactured within the UK. With more
anticipated, this business can look forward to
considerable growth. Yorkshire Cottage
Bakeries, based in Bradford, West Yorkshire
and purchased in January 2005, is proving 
to be an excellent acquisition. As part of our
strategy, we have nearly completed the
process of transferring Newton House Bakery
to this site, the benefits of which include
lower operating costs and increased
productivity. Jessie Oldfield, a subsidiary of
Yorkshire Cottage Bakeries is also showing
strong growth. This business is very
seasonally biased and I am pleased to report
that orders for this forthcoming Christmas are
well ahead of last year. As a result of the
transfer of production from the Newton
House Bakery business to Yorkshire Cottage
taking place earlier than planned, and other
Inter Link Foods PLC production moves to Jessie Oldfield, these
businesses have performed better than we
had anticipated at the time of their
acquisition.
One of the most important developments
this year has been the construction of a new
50,000 sq ft factory, adjacent to our existing
site in Blackburn, for which we have signed
an agreement to lease. The investment in this
site includes a £3.3m automated plant to
satisfy an unprecedented demand for our
products. It will enhance our reputation as a
leading UK supplier, able to consistently
deliver high quality products at low unit cost. 
STAFF
With such high sales growth, it has been
necessary to appoint additional, high calibre
staff, to ensure we manage this growth
effectively. To this end we have therefore
significantly strengthened our teams in the
following areas — Technical, New Product
Development, Finance, Planning,
Commercial, Supply Chain, Customer
Service, Operational Management, Process
Improvement and Central Purchasing.
I’d like to take this opportunity to thank all
our employees within each business. It is
through their hard work, loyalty and
commitment that we continue to grow this
business. There is always a very positive,
‘can do’ attitude and a will to win that will see
us through the next stage of our development. 
The company’s 11th year was recognised
in the North West of England by winning 
the prestigious Manchester Evening News
Business of the Year award for 2004.
Numerous industry awards have flowed
through the years but this one is particularly
valued by everyone involved in the company.
Since joining AIM in 1998 our sales have
increased by 1040% from £8.6 million to
£98.1 million.
SUPPLIERS
I should also like to thank our suppliers for
their support and hard work in a period that
has provided a challenging trading
environment. We have worked with many of
them throughout our period as a public
company and we are very grateful for their
high degree of commitment to us.
PROSPECTS
As relationships with customers are
strengthened and we become an even more
important supplier, underpinned by our
culture of good service, good quality and
value for money, the opportunities for new
business have never been stronger. We
remain in a strong position to capture
opportunities and realise our potential.
During the first two months of this current
year, sales have been very strong, showing
32.2% year on year growth and 9.1% like for
like growth. We can look forward to the year
ahead with optimism and confidence,
assured in the knowledge that we have the
correct strategy and resources in place to
enable us to continue to grow.
Alwin Thompson
Executive Chairman
13 July 2005 
05 Annual report 2005
