 02 InterBulk Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013   
I today report the audited results of InterBulk Group plc for the year ended 
30 September 2013. Although revenue improved 5% in the second half of 
the year compared with the first half, the full year results showed a year 
on year revenue decline of just over 3%. This lower activity combined with 
lower margins and higher fixed costs reduced operating profit (before 
exceptional items) by 38%, the lowest in the Group’s history. A reduction 
of £2.4 million in interest expense partially mitigated this and profit before 
exceptional items and tax fell from £4.9 million to £2.3 million. On a more 
positive note our cash conversion of EBITDA was strong and we were able 
to continue our four year performance record of reducing net debt, ending 
the year with net debt £3.1 million lower at £69.5 million.
In announcements during the year, we noted that the externally forecast 
economic recovery in Europe had not materialised in our industry and this 
has remained the case throughout the year. Current trading has seen some 
patchy signs of revival since our year end of September. Our core European 
chemicals business has been affected by this continued weakness and 
volatility, with European chemical production still well behind the pre-
crisis levels. Nevertheless, we have seen greater stability and indeed some 
growth in our Liquid Bulk business within Europe after a very low activity 
level in the first quarter. Our Dry Bulk business however has continued to 
be heavily impacted by specific market dynamics in the polymer sector, 
including chemical plant shutdowns both temporary and permanent which 
affected both our volume and equipment balances. The European polymer 
market is still adjusting to the pressures on global flows and pricing from 
substantial capacity additions using cheap feedstock in the Middle East. 
One bright spot has been the 9% growth achieved in the transportation of 
foodstuff which is one of our strategic focus areas going forwards.
As we reported at the half year, the Liquid Bulk division (tankcontainers) 
saw very low activity levels in the first quarter followed by a recovery in 
the second quarter as the chemical sector picked up in the USA, Middle 
East and China. During the second half, activity levels overall have been 
stable, although with regional imbalances caused by greater volatility in 
the chemical supply chains. Margins continue to be under pressure due to 
increased competition with the earlier global boom in tankcontainer new 
build which is yet to be fully absorbed by market growth. Overall, the Liquid 
Bulk division’s results were very consistent with last year, both in terms of 
revenue and operating profit (before exceptional items), at £156.2 million 
and £7.7 million respectively. 
Our Dry Bulk business, which is predominantly based in Europe, was 
adversely affected by the weakness of the European polymer industry 
and despite some increase in revenue in the second half compared to 
the exceptionally slow first half, the full year revenue was down 6%. The 
consequent pressure on margins and fleet utilisation along with specific 
mix of activity and further investment in our regional office network 
caused a sharp deterioration in operating profit (before exceptional 
items) which fell from £6.1 million to £1.8 million. This performance and 
the possible longer term impact of a wave of new plastics capacity in 
the US Gulf driven by cheap feedstocks has put pressure on European 
growth prospects and has led to us reassessing the assumptions behind 
the carrying value of the goodwill recorded on our balance sheet. In 
chairman’s Statement
David Rolph
FInancIaL HIGHLIGHtS 
Consolidated 
Income 
Statement 
£’000
Exceptional 
Items 
£’000
Intangible 
Amortisation 
£’000
2013 
Adjusted
(pre exceptional
items and
amortisation) 
£’000
2012 
Adjusted 
(pre exceptional  
items and    
amortisation) 
£’000
Revenue 271,538 - - 271,538 280,410
Gross profit 34,654 - - 34,654 38,920
Operating profit/(loss) (7,113) (15,146) (286) 8,319 13,336
Profit/(loss) before tax (12,868) (15,146) (286) 2,564 5,227
Profit/(loss) after tax (13,586) (15,018) (286) 1,718 4,673
EBITDA   16,220 21,334
Net debt (including equipment finance)   69,474 72,528
EPS (before exceptional items and amortisation)  0.37 pence 1.00 pence InterBulk Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013    03
addition, our ISO-Veyor technology, which provides a solution for dry 
materials with difficult flow characteristics, has not fully delivered on a 
number of development areas which has required a more conservative 
set of assumptions to be applied to the value of goodwill recognised. 
The combined impact is a £14.6 million exceptional goodwill impairment 
provision being recorded in the year ended 30 September 2013. 
Our Strategy
During the period we have reviewed and updated our strategy in the 
light of the current market situation and outlook, and the development 
of our alliance with Sinotrans. We concluded that we were broadly 
on the right strategic track, and the work confirmed that significant 
growth opportunities remain and that our business model leaves us well 
positioned for the future. 
InterBulk’s vision is to be a leading global supplier of intermodal 
logistics solutions to customers in the chemical, polymer and food 
industry, spanning both dry and liquid bulk supply chains, using our 
established network in Europe, the Americas and Asia Pacific, and 
employing the best people in the industry. We will continue to strengthen 
partnerships with our customers and logistics service partners around the 
world. 
Our updated strategic building blocks are to: 
•	 Deliver excellent Health & Safety performance following the principles 
of Responsible Care
TM
•	 Continue to build a high performance global team committed to 
the business strategy with high levels of collaboration and business 
innovation to produce superior results. 
•	 Lead the market in terms of operational cost competitiveness through 
procurement excellence and optimised traffic flows.
•	 Grow our liquid bulk business in China through a strong development 
of the Sinotrans InterBulk Alliance (SIA). 
•	 Grow our dry bulk business for the polymers and food industry in 
Europe – especially in regions where InterBulk has a lower market 
share. 
•	 Establish bag-in-box intermodal solutions in new markets in Russia 
and Asia, including China.
•	 Expand our liquid bulk European operations in higher margin 
specialised product/tankcontainer business.
•	 Develop liquid bulk deep-sea operations in the growth regions of 
China, the Middle East, Russia and Asia.
•	 Develop strong customer relationships by offering innovative 
supply chain and 3rd party fleet management solutions using high 
performance IT tools. 
Loek Kullberg, our incoming CEO will ensure a strong focus in the coming 
year on addressing the performance of our market leading Dry Bulk 
division. 
The alliance with Sinotrans in China continues to develop. We now operate 
from three offices in Shanghai, Qingdao and Guangzhou in order to be 
close to the main chemical clusters in China. All operating relationships 
with Sinotrans are in place and we are executing the growth strategy 
which is focusing initially on international deep-sea liquid tankcontainer 
services and the development of domestic China dry bulk opportunities. 
We continue to integrate our operations with Sinotrans to maintain 
cost leadership and enhance service levels for both our Chinese and 
international customers. 
Funding
During the year we continued to reduce our net debt, achieving a £3.1m 
reduction despite the impact of an appreciation of the Euro on our Euro 
denominated debt. We have now reduced Group indebtedness for each 
of the past four financial years. The Group had net debt (defined as bank 
loans, overdrafts and obligations under finance leases less cash and cash 
equivalents) at 30 September 2013 of £69.5m comprising:
30 September
2013
£’000
30 September
 2012
£’000
Term loans 65,830 70,219
Other bank loans 72 356
Asset finance lease creditor 17,101 18,554
Less: Cash (13,529) (16,601)
69,474 72,528
We announced on 5 October 2012 that we had completed a successful 
refinancing of the Group’s debt with a new four year debt package in place 
which expires in September 2016. The substantial deleverage achieved 
since 2009 helped us to secure a significant improvement in interest 
margins mainly due to the elimination of £21m of expensive mezzanine 
debt. Furthermore, on 8 February 2013, we successfully completed a 
syndication of approximately half of our debt package with Rabobank who 
are major debt finance providers to the logistics sector. We believe that 
this diversification of lenders to the Group is a positive step.
Board Composition
On 28 August 2013 it was announced that Koert van Wissen had decided 
to retire and step down as Chief Executive Officer and become a non-
executive director with effect from 1 October 2013. I was delighted to 
announce simultaneously that Loek Kullberg, a Dutch national, with 
extensive experience in the international maritime and transport industry, 
would take over as Chief Executive Officer. Most recently he had been 
Divisional Director of Towage at Royal Boskalis and Managing Director of 
Harbour Towage and Terminals at SMIT International.
Koert had spent more than 33 years as a leading figure in the 
tankcontainer and intermodal operating business, including most recently 
seven years as the founding CEO of the InterBulk Group. He managed 
the Group with great energy and leadership through some challenging 
economic times and the Board thank him for his enormous contribution 
to the development of the Group and look forward to his continuing 
contribution as a non-executive director. 
We also welcomed Luis Gomez to the Board as the Norbert Dentressangle 
nominated non-executive director taking over from Jerome Burtin on 
11 June 2013. Luis is the managing director of the transport division 
of Norbert Dentressangle and brings substantial financial and business 
experience of the logistics industry.
IntROdUctIOn 04 InterBulk Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013   
Outlook
The global chemical industry remains on a path of long term growth due 
to the extraordinary range of benefits it brings to consumers. In Europe, 
which remains the largest area for our activities, chemical companies have 
reported improving production levels over the last two quarters and the 
industry does expect a return to growth in 2014. We have seen signs of 
this renewed confidence within the Liquid Bulk division and activity in the 
last few months has been satisfactory. However, we remain more cautious 
concerning the European polymer market especially given continued 
actions by producers to close uncompetitive production units. We are 
responding by promoting the use of our “bag in box” dry bulk solutions for 
the storage and movement of other products (such as food) and in other 
geographies (China, Russia and exports from the Middle East) where major 
new product flows are developing. In these geographies bulk transport 
solutions are in their infancy and establishing significant dry bulk business 
is a longer term task. Meanwhile we will focus this year on making sure 
that we operate the business with improved efficiency and effectiveness in 
order to improve margins. 
Growth opportunities remain in place, particularly geographically, using 
the strength of the Sinotrans InterBulk Alliance, and in sectors such as 
food where we believe our intermodal solutions can bring benefits. We 
expect to see further progress on these growth initiatives. 
David Rolph  
Non-Executive Chairman Liquid Bulk
InterBulk Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 05    Liquid Bulk reported revenue and operating profit similar to last year despite a 
poor first quarter. activity growth outside europe was encouraging.
