 06 InterBulk Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013   
Operational Highlights
Operational highlights for the year include:
•	 Liquid Bulk division (tankcontainers) achieved good growth outside 
Europe, especially in Asia. Continued margin pressure (especially 
on European export traffic flows) offset by progress in other areas 
ensuring a stable financial performance overall.  
•	 Tankcontainer fleet grew further during the year to over 10,000 tanks, 
consolidating our position in the top 5 operators worldwide.
•	 China operations integrated and now fully in house instead of via 
local agents. InterBulk team now across 3 offices in China working 
together with the Sinotrans network.
•	 Further year of growth in transportation of dry foodstuff, partially 
offsetting the reduction in the polymer sector with our customers 
facing a challenging environment forcing some temporary and 
permanent plant closures.
the Market
The global chemical industry, which is our main customer base, has 
experienced a second challenging year after the recovery seen in 2010 
and the first half of 2011. The absence of a recovery in economic growth 
and consumer confidence in Europe and the challenge from regions with 
feedstock advantages (principally the Middle East) have weighed heavily 
on European chemical production levels. Overall European chemical 
output fell slightly in the last 12 months and still remains below the pre-
2009 crisis level. There are the beginnings of a more positive sentiment 
and European production is forecast by the chemical industry to return 
to growth in 2014. Regions with advantaged feedstock positions will 
continue to be locations of substantial chemical industry investment and 
the Middle East is being joined by North America due to the exploitation 
of shale gas which has dramatically reduced the price of ethane, a key 
feedstock, sparking a high level of plant investments with the majority on 
stream in 2015-2017. Asia (principally China and India) will be the other 
main location of investment due to the scale and rapid growth of their 
domestic consumption. Russia will see investment in new plants due to 
advantaged feedstocks, but Latin American projects may be put on hold in 
the face of the competitive disadvantage versus the US Gulf. The changes 
in the global chemical manufacturing footprint have a tangible impact on 
our own customer base and our business mix and we need to follow these 
developments carefully and respond accordingly. Logistics however will 
remain a critical aspect in this dynamic market.
Intermodal logistics solutions continue to take market share from 
other transport modes driven by superior performance and reduced 
environmental impact. In servicing the changing chemical market, it 
is important to provide sustainable and flexible logistics solutions by 
expanding and adapting our network and developing new partnerships. 
Examples include our strategic alliances with Sinotrans in Asia and with 
Norbert Dentressangle in Europe.
The following factors will drive a further move towards intermodal 
logistics:
•	 Ambitious targets to reduce CO2 emissions which will be aided by the 
switch to intermodal transport;
•	 Chemical production shifts lead to a change in the global trade 
balance and in many cases will lengthen the supply chain. This will 
result in a change in logistic flows with longer lead times again 
favouring intermodal logistics; and
•	 The continuous focus on working capital reduction, leading to lower 
inventory levels and more flexible supply chains.
InterBulk has an outsourced business model so that all transportation 
and support services are performed by our partners. This creates a global 
and flexible business model with a minimum of fixed costs, which is 
increasingly important in this volatile market. Oil prices (which directly 
influences our bought in transportation services) were more stable than 
in previous years. Deep-sea container shipping still faces overcapacity 
and rates have remained reasonably steady although with volatility on 
specific trade lanes for example Asia to Europe. Across most areas of 
the transportation services there has been some form of rationalisation 
with adjustments to capacities and frequency of services, which can on 
occasion result in constraints at peak times. In Europe driver shortage 
remains a theme for the industry. 
Operational Performance
Liquid Bulk
After a weak first quarter, the Liquid Bulk division has seen stable 
performance and some growth. The revenue in the year is slightly up 
on the prior year thanks to the stronger second half which was 5% 
ahead of the first half of the year. The highest growth has been outside 
Europe with some further contraction experienced in the intra-European 
activity. During the year to 30 September 2013 our fleet increased by 
7.5% to 10,600 tanks. We remain in the top 5 of tankcontainer operators 
worldwide in terms of fleet size.
chief executive’s Review
Loek Kullberg
