 2
InterBulk Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chairman's Statement
David Rolph
I today report the audited results of InterBulk Group plc for the 
year ended 30 September 2014. After a stronger performance in 
the second half of the year and despite a 6% year on year revenue 
decline to £256.3 million we achieved an operating profit (before 
amortisation and exceptional items) 6% ahead of last year at £8.8 
million. With the interest expense remaining at a similar level the 
profit before amortisation, exceptional items and tax increased 23% 
from £2.6 million to £3.2 million. We were able to continue our five 
year performance record of reducing net debt, ending the year with 
the debt level substantially reduced by £9.2 million at £60.2 million.
The performance of the Liquid Bulk tank container division was 
encouraging with an improvement delivered in margin quality from 
a focus on business selection and tank container fleet balance. The 
Liquid Bulk division saw very low activity levels in the first quarter 
followed by a recovery in the second quarter as the chemical sector 
picked up in the USA, Middle East and China. During the second half, 
activity levels overall were stable, although we saw a slow-down in 
activity in the last 2 months of the financial year linked to weakening 
business confidence and short term de-stocking triggered by the 
sharp drop in oil price. Transportation moves were 1% up on last 
year, but revenues at £153.6 million were 2% lower year on year 
due to less favorable currency translation. Operating profit (before 
exceptional items) increased 2% to £7.9 million.
During the year, we announced that our Dry Bulk business continued 
to be heavily impacted by specific market dynamics in the polymer 
sector in Europe, including both temporary and permanent chemical 
plant shutdowns, which affected both our volume and equipment 
balances. The European polymer market is still adjusting to the 
pressures on global flows and pricing from substantial capacity 
additions using cheap feedstock in the Middle East, and the wave 
of new plastics capacity being constructed in the US Gulf based 
on ethane from shale gas will simply heighten this pressure on the 
European producers in the coming years. Our strategy to develop 
new business for example in the food market, and also to bring the 
bag-in-box concept to other regions, such as Asia, has not achieved 
the desired results and, indeed after a number of years of sustained 
growth, we have seen a drop in food revenue in the second half. 
Activity linked to European polymers still accounts for a significant 
share of our business with 82% of our Dry Bulk division revenue. 
We have therefore moved to reduce sharply the overheads in the 
Dry Bulk division, and to achieve cost reductions in procurement 
and through operational efficiency measures, since the drop in 
revenue of 11% year on year to £101.9 million presents us with a 
challenging situation. Operating profit (before exceptional items) in 
the Dry Bulk division remained stable at £1.7 million. In light of this, 
we have reduced our forecasts which has resulted in an exceptional 
impairment of the carrying value of the Dry Bulk division of £32.3 
million. This along with £2.0 million of other exceptional items (see 
note 7) results in a total exceptional charge of £34.3 million in the 
year.
Our Strategy
InterBulk’s vision is to be a leading global supplier of intermodal 
logistics solutions to customers in the chemical, polymer and food 
industries, spanning both dry and liquid bulk supply chains, using 
our established network in Europe, the Americas and Asia Pacific, 
and employing the best people in the industry. We will continue to 
strengthen partnerships with our customers and logistics service 
partners around the world. 
Organisational effectiveness and efficiency has come under 
the spotlight and we have used two core elements of customer 
service and cost as the focus for our efforts. We have completed 
a comprehensive reorganisation of the European Dry Bulk division 
during the year and continued to push for greater efficiency from the 
centralisation of our internal operations. The global tankcontainer 
organisation has also been subject to an in depth review to ensure 
that we can profitably develop this growth area for the Group. 
Investment in chemical production lies outside Europe and we believe 
that our network and strategy are well positioned to capitalise on 
this especially in Asia with the Sinotrans InterBulk Alliance. We plan 
to expand our co-operation with Sinotrans to North East Asia during 
the next year.  INTRODUCTION BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL
3
Financial Highlights
Consolidated 
Income Statement
£’000
Exceptional Items
£’000
Intangible 
Amortisation
£’000
2014
Adjusted
(pre-exceptional 
items and 
amortisation)
£’000
2013
Adjusted (pre 
exceptional items 
and amortisation)
£’000
Revenue 256,261 - - 256,261 271,538
Gross profit 33,327 - - 33,327 34,654
Operating profit/(loss) (26,173) (34,341) (668) 8,836 8,319
Profit/(loss) before tax (31,789) (34,341) (668) 3,220 2,564
Profit/(loss) after tax (33,358) (33,892) (668) 1,202 1,718
EBITDA 16,654 16,220
Net debt (including equipment finance) 60,233 69,474
EPS (before exceptional items and amortisation) 0.26 pence 0.37 pence
Our operational strategy reflects the following elements: 
•	 Continue to deliver excellent Health & Safety performance 
following the principles of Responsible Care™ 
•	 Invest in a high performance global team committed to the 
business strategy with high levels of divisional collaboration 
and business innovation to produce superior results. 
•	 Lead the market in terms of operational cost competitiveness 
by continuously driving procurement savings initiatives and 
improve operational performance by efficiencies to optimise 
traffic flow balance and reduce empty positioning.
•	 Grow our liquid bulk business in China through a strong 
development of the Sinotrans InterBulk Alliance (SIA). 
•	 Recover the performance of our dry bulk business in Europe.
•	 Expand our liquid bulk European operations especially in higher 
margin specialised product/tankcontainer business.
•	 Develop liquid bulk deep-sea operations in the growth regions of 
China, the Middle East, Russia and Asia.
•	 Integrate with customers by offering innovative supply 
chain and 3rd party fleet management solutions using high 
performance IT tools. 
Only once recovery has been achieved in our European Dry Bulk 
business, will we seek to further expand this business model to other 
areas of the world. 
Funding
The impact on our markets of the financial crisis and the global 
economic downturn of recent years has been substantial and has 
prompted industry-wide strategic change. Our business model 
has enabled us to maintain profitability and to reduce bank debt 
throughout that difficult period but it is vital that we position the 
Group for success in the future, recognising the new dynamics in 
our sector. In addition to the operational strategy described above, 
we are also examining the options available to place the financial 
structure of the Group onto a long-term basis. 
Net debt was reduced by a further £9.2 million in the year. We have 
now reduced Group indebtedness for each of the past five financial 
years. The Group had net debt (defined as bank loans, overdrafts and 
obligations under finance leases less cash and cash equivalents) at 
30 September 2014 of £60.2 million comprising:
 
30 September 
2014 
£’000
30 September 
2013 
£’000
Term loans 57,212 65,830
Other bank loans – 72
Asset finance lease creditor 13,196 17,101
Less: Cash 
(10,175) (13,529)
60,233 69,474
Full details of our bank facilities are contained in Note 24 to the 
financial statements. Our principal facilities expire on 30 September 
2016, and while the Group continues to demonstrate its ability to  4
InterBulk Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chairman's Statement continued
manage cash flow well and to achieve sustained reductions in debt, 
the Board is seeking to develop a group and financial structure 
which will support the refinance of our existing bank facilities 
and create a financial platform to optimise shareholder value. Our 
strategic options continue to be assessed, including identifying 
ways to continue to reduce our levels of debt, and this process has 
included open dialogue with our existing bankers. We have agreed 
with our bankers adjustments to our covenant framework which 
will regulate our debt levels with adequate headroom. To align our 
facilities to the strategic needs of the business, and to ensure that 
we have new lasting facilities in place by the time of approval of next 
year’s Group annual accounts, the Group will be seeking to refinance 
existing borrowings by 31 December 2015. Given the continued debt 
reduction achieved over the last five years and the future strategy 
of the Group, we believe that such a refinancing can be delivered 
by that date. Our current bankers are aware of, and support, this 
timetable. We have also assessed the Group’s medium-term facility 
requirements and have agreed with our bankers that the current 
revolving credit facilities of £10m will now expire at 31 March 2016. 
The principal risks and uncertainties, including access to capital, 
which could potentially impact the Group are shown on pages 13 
and 14.
Board Composition
On 28 August 2013 it was announced that Koert van Wissen had 
decided to retire and step down as Chief Executive Officer and 
become a non-executive director with effect from 1 October 2013. I 
was delighted to announce simultaneously that Loek Kullberg joined 
us as Chief Executive Officer. Koert van Wissen relinquished his non-
executive position on 30 June 2014. Again we thank Koert for his 
enormous contribution to the development of the Group over many 
years.
Outlook
The global chemical industry remains on a path of long term growth 
due to the wide range of benefits it brings to consumers with logistics 
playing an important part in supporting this growth. Intermodal 
solutions are aligned with the supply chains becoming longer, more 
complex and demanding greater environmental considerations. 
The review and update of our strategy has confirmed that we have a 
strong business model and that intermodal logistics will continue to 
play an ever more important role in global supply chains. Our short-
term priority in Dry Bulk is to continue the recovery of the European 
business performance. 
The chemical sector is expected to demonstrate some modest growth 
in the next year and we are well represented throughout this customer 
base in most regions. Supply chain volatility remains high, reflecting 
continued uncertainties in the global economy including crude oil 
prices but with the full impact of the measures implemented over 
the last six months, including reductions in fixed costs, operational 
efficiency actions and specific procurement initiatives, the Group is 
in a stronger position to achieve profitable growth. Coupled with the 
anticipated refinancing of our bank facilities in 2015, the coming 
year will be challenging but we have the right team in place to deliver 
sound results for all of our stakeholders. The Board wishes to record 
its appreciation for the dedication of all Interbulk Group employees 
who have worked tirelessly and tackled the challenges of a tough 
external environment.
David Rolph 
Non-Executive Chairman 5
