 6
InterBulk Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chief Executive's Review
Operational Highlights
Operational highlights for the year include:
•	 Continued reinforcement of the emphasis on health & safety 
with a reduction in the number of significant events and 
improved near miss reporting. 
•	 Growth in Liquid Bulk transportation moves, both intra-
European and global, supported an increase in the Group’s 
tankcontainer fleet to 10,900.
•	 Dry Bulk European restructuring initiatives delivered with 
significant savings during the second half of the year thereby 
boosting our competitiveness.
Market Overview
The global chemical industry, which is our main customer base, has 
grown during the year to 30 September 2014. European production 
recovered slightly, but remains below pre-2008 levels. This modest 
recovery is forecast to continue next year, but there remain several 
risks, such as the conflict in the Ukraine, and the threat of deflation 
and high unemployment levels in several countries, which could 
potentially limit chemical demand. However, it is still believed that a 
number of developments including technical innovation, will ensure 
that demand growth for chemicals will exceed GDP expectations. 
Regions with advantaged feedstock positions will continue to be 
locations of substantial chemical industry investment. The Middle 
East is being joined by North America as the exploitation of shale gas 
has dramatically reduced the price of ethane, a key feedstock, which 
has sparked a high level of plant investments with the first wave due 
to come on stream in 2015-2017. Asia (principally China and India) 
is the other main location of investment in chemical production due 
to the scale and rapid growth of domestic consumption. The changes 
in the global chemical manufacturing footprint have a tangible 
impact on both our own customer base and our business mix and we 
continue to follow these developments carefully in order to respond 
accordingly. Looking forward, logistics will remain a critical aspect in 
this dynamic market.
Intermodal logistics solutions continue to gain market share from 
other transport modes driven by superior performance, flexibility 
offered in the supply chain and reduced environmental impact. 
The rapid expansion of the global tankcontainer fleet continues 
both through operators such as ourselves and through specialist 
lease companies. This can cause short-term over-capacity from 
time to time, but it also demonstrates that tankcontainers have 
a strong investment case. In intra-European transportation, the 
intermodal operators continue to be challenged by “traditional” road 
transportation. Despite the environmental agenda and the desire 
to see less freight on the roads, this direct competition remains 
strong, even for longer distances (over 400 km) which should be 
less attractive to a direct trucking option. In servicing the changing 
chemical market, it is important to provide sustainable and flexible 
logistics solutions by expanding and adapting our network and 
developing new partnerships. Examples include our strategic alliance 
with Sinotrans in Asia which we will continue to expand in 2015.
InterBulk has an outsourced business model in which all 
transportation and support services are performed through partners. 
This creates a global and flexible business model with a minimum 
of fixed costs and increasingly important advantages in the volatile 
market in which we operate. While deep-sea container shipping still 
faces overcapacity and rates have remained reasonably steady, there 
is some volatility on specific trade lanes. Across most areas of the 
transportation services there has been some form of rationalisation 
with adjustments to capacities and frequency, which on occasion 
resulted in constraints at peak times. In Europe, driver shortages 
remain a dilemma for the industry including an additional training 
burden in the UK. Additional costs associated with compliance with 
European low sulphur regulation on shipping to come into force on 
1 January 2015. We have been proactive in communicating to our 
customers about the impact on freight rates from these additional 
imposed industry wide charges.
Operational Performance
Liquid Bulk
Liquid Bulk division (tankcontainers) activity, as measured by moves 
performed, increased year on year by 1% with the increase in both 
the intra-European and global businesses. There was however 
a slowdown during August and September linked to weakening 
business confidence and short term de-stocking triggered by the 
sharply dropping oil price. During the first quarter of the financial year, 
storage income dropped, and while some of this was subsequently 
recovered, the full year was below last year’s level. Our global activity 
Loek Kullberg
