 6 International Greetings plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Key achievements
  Proﬁt before exceptional items and tax 
up 37% to £7.1 million (2011: £5.2 million)
  Cash generated from operations 
of £11.5 million (2011: £10.7 million)
  Debt down 6% to £41.7 million 
(2011: £44.4 million) and year-end 
leverage at 2.8 times (2011: 3.5 times)
  Restructured our Board in preparation 
for a new era of growth
  Completed important investment in 
future efﬁciency at our operations in the 
Netherlands and China
  Awarded the prestigious "Turnaround PLC of 
the year" from the Institute for Turnaround
Following the restructuring of the Group over the past 
several years, our focus now is on improving efﬁciency, 
developing sales and growing proﬁts in the areas of our 
business where we are committed to be true market 
leaders, whilst continuing to look at every opportunity 
to improve our cost effectiveness in competitive and 
challenging markets. It is therefore a continuous 
strategy that we seek out initiatives to improve our 
margins as a consequence of reducing our cost of goods 
by implementing manufacturing efﬁciencies, creative 
product development and effective sourcing techniques. 
To these ends, during the year we have made signiﬁcant 
investments to relocate our manufacturing facilities in 
China and install a state-of-the-art gift wrap printing 
press in our company in Holland. Within each of the 
countries that we operate, we see that consumers and, 
as a consequence our retail customers, are increasingly 
looking for "value for money" in the products that they 
purchase. Accordingly, we challenge the management in 
all our businesses to ﬁnd ways to not only look for sales 
and proﬁt opportunities, but also to deliver improved 
gross margins.
As previously advised, Keith James retired as our 
Chairman following the Annual General Meeting in 
September 2011. Keith joined the Board in 2004 and 
was appointed Chairman in 2006. I should like to place 
on record our thanks and appreciation for the signiﬁcant 
contribution that he made to the Group during that period. 
Under his leadership, the Group successfully carried out 
some essential reorganisation and restructuring and is 
now well placed to go forwards. I wish Keith a long, 
happy and healthy period of retirement.
During the year three of our Executive Directors also left 
our Group. Charles Uwakaneme, who played an important 
role in the reorganisation of our businesses in the UK 
and continental Europe, retired at the same time as 
Keith James. Sheryl Tye, our Group Finance Director left 
in September , having played a vital part in the restructuring 
of our ﬁnances, systems, controls and management 
reporting over the past three years. Martin Hornung, 
I am proud and privileged to have been appointed 
Chairman of our Group, following the retirement of my 
predecessor, Keith James, during September 2011. It is 
therefore very pleasing for me to report that the Group 
has made good progress, with proﬁts before exceptional 
items and tax increasing by 37% over the prior year to 
reach £7.1 million. At the same time our balance sheet 
continues to strengthen, showing a reduction in net 
debt and an improvement in our leverage ratio.
Revenues for the year ended 31 March 2012 rose by 2% 
to £221 million, from continuing operations. Operating 
proﬁt before exceptional items was up 33% to £10.7 million 
and £6.8 million after exceptional items whilst, as stated, 
proﬁt before exceptional items and tax was up 37% to 
£7.1 million and £3.2 million after exceptional items. 
Debt fell by 6% to £41.7 million and cash generated 
from operations, excluding exceptional items, rose 
to £15.4 million, compared with £12.4 million the 
previous year.
A year of continued progress 
to deliver improved 
shareholder value.
Chairman’s statement
John Charlton Chairman  7 International Greetings plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Overview Business review Governance Financials
who joined our Group 22 years ago following our 
acquisition of the cracker company Brite Sparks was 
responsible for our manufacturing and sourcing ofﬁces 
in China and Hong Kong; Martin left in December 2011. 
We also saw the departure of Chris Howell from our 
Board, following his three year term of ofﬁce. Chris 
joined as a Non-Executive Director in 2009 and was 
Chair of our Audit Committee. I should like to thank each 
of them for their contributions to our various successes 
over the years and their loyalty and support. On behalf 
of the Board, we wish them every success for the future.
However , I am delighted to welcome three new Directors 
to the Board. Anthony Lawrinson joined as Chief Finance 
Ofﬁcer in October 2011. Anthony previously held the same 
role with Reliance Security Group Limited and prior to that 
O2 Airwave. Elaine Bond joined as a Non-Executive Director 
in February 2012. Elaine is also a Non-Executive Director 
of Yorkshire Ambulance Service and was previously 
Group Operations Director of UK Greetings Ltd, the UK’s 
largest manufacturer of greeting cards, gift wrap and 
related social expression products. Phil Dutton joined 
as a Non-Executive Director in May 2012 and is also Chair 
of our Audit Committee. Phil was previously Finance Director 
of Matalan Plc, Finance Director of Asda Stores and more 
recently Group Finance Director of Punch T averns Plc. I wish 
all three every success and fulﬁlment on joining our Board 
and look forward to working with them.
to read more about our range of products,  
visit us online at www.internationalgreetings.co.uk
I should like to thank my colleagues on the Board for 
their hard work and support that they have given to 
me personally and for their loyalty, commitment and 
contributions to the Group. Similarly, I wish to record 
our thanks and appreciation to all our staff within 
the Group for their loyalty, efforts and support.
It is through their hard work that we are making 
the progress that I am able to report. Finally, I thank 
our shareholders, bankers, customers, suppliers and 
advisors for their loyalty and continuing support to 
our businesses throughout the world that comprise 
International Greetings plc.
John Charlton
Chairman
