 8 International Greetings plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Key Achievements
  Highlight to be supplied.
  Highlight to be supplied.
  Highlight to be supplied.
  Highlight to be supplied.
  Highlight to be supplied.
  Highlight to be supplied.
Key achievements
  Operating proﬁt before exceptional items 
up 33% to £10.7 million and £6.8 million 
after exceptional items
  Cash generated from operations before 
exceptional items £15.4 million
  Debt down 6% to £41.7 million
  Successful relocation of China factory
  Reorganisation of Hong Kong 
based operations
  Installation of new state-of-the-art gift 
wrap manufacturing in Holland
  Operational streamlining in the UK
  Major proﬁts growth in USA
Focussing on growth
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer's review
Despite continued inflationary pressures on our cost base, 
we have achieved improved efﬁciencies, particularly 
through reorganisation in the UK and Hong Kong and 
investment in manufacturing in China and Holland. 
These actions have enabled us to maintain our ability 
to proﬁtably compete in commoditised markets, whilst 
providing exceptional value and excellent service to our 
customers on a worldwide basis.
The encouraging growth outlined above has been 
achieved despite the continued challenging market 
conditions and we remain focused on identifying and 
delivering new and signiﬁcant opportunities for 
accelerating future proﬁts growth.
Geographical highlights
UK and Asia
The UK and Asia business accounted for 53% (2011: 54%) 
of the Group’s revenue for the year . Sales were sustained 
following strong growth in the prior year, driven by a 
notable expansion and contribution in product categories 
targeted at entry level price points, which led to 
record-breaking volumes and efﬁcient manufacturing.
The year saw a particularly strong performance in our 
gift packaging and greetings categories, with a 70% 
increase in our sales of single greeting cards in the UK 
market. We expect this growth to continue following the 
commencement of trading in the area of personalised, 
digital, online greetings and the expansion of our 
portfolio of products and service within this marketplace.
Within the UK, our businesses engaged in the stationery, 
creative play and gift categories have continued to improve 
proﬁtability, by focusing on operational efﬁciency and a 
collaborative approach to sales and product development.
The ever-closer co-operation of our UK and Asia based 
operations, enabled us to provide on-time, in-full deliveries 
throughout the year , whilst reducing our cost base through 
the merger and reorganisation of our Hong Kong-based 
sourcing, quality control and customer liaison facilities. 
I am pleased to report that we have delivered another 
year of solid growth with excellent progress achieved 
across our portfolio of activity. As a result, operating 
proﬁt, before exceptional items, has exceeded market 
expectations, whilst we have also continued our trend, 
in recent years, of generating increased levels of cash 
and reducing debt.
The sustained increase in gross margins, sales and 
proﬁtability reflects the strong platform we now have 
in place across the business. This, combined with our 
ability to design and engineer commercially appealing 
product solutions and develop innovative and added value 
categories, has enabled us to deliver sustained growth 
at Group level since 2008. 
Paul Fineman Chief Executive Ofﬁcer  9 International Greetings plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Overview Business review Governance Financials
Australia
Artwrap Australia accounted for 13% (2011: 12%) of the 
Group’s revenue for the year. Sales increased by 16%, 
in a currently resilient marketplace, and the business 
continued to expand its customer base throughout 
Australia, New Zealand and the Paciﬁc Region.
To support future growth and deliver greater efﬁciency, 
we have invested in fast payback improvements to our 
Melbourne-based logistics facilities, that are planned to 
have an impact in the next ﬁnancial year and beyond.
Customers and licences
We have once again seen the expansion in our global 
sales of products developed under our portfolio of 
International Greetings’ own generic brands, thus 
enabling us to leverage our designs and product 
development on a worldwide basis.
At the same time, we have enjoyed considerable success 
in the areas of licensed product categories and during 
the year, in addition to strong sales of well-established 
"perennial" characters, we have seen excellent performance 
in the sales of a wide selection of our Peppa Pig™ products 
and the recently introduced Monster High™ range. 
Our licensed characters and brands in 2012/13 continue 
to help us provide our customers with a superb choice 
of generic licensed and bespoke products.
The relocation of our China-based manufacturing facilities 
from Shenzhen to Huizhou will result in the establishment 
of a lower cost base that will enable us to remain 
competitive, whilst providing the highest standards 
of quality and service to our global customers.
Mainland Europe
In what is currently the most challenging of our main 
markets, mainland Europe accounted for 13% (2011: 15%) 
of the Group’s revenue for the year, representing a fall in 
revenue of 13%. Nevertheless, tight control of overheads 
and margins ensured that all of our European businesses 
were proﬁtable and the purchase and timely installation 
of a new, highly efﬁcient gift wrap manufacturing plant 
in Holland has enabled us to establish new opportunities 
for reduced cost and proﬁtable expansion.
However, as in other regions, value and mass 
market retailers have proved to be most resilient 
to economic conditions and we have established 
and nurtured important relationships with many 
of the key pan-European retail groups which will 
serve us well going forward.
USA
The USA operations accounted for 20% (2011: 19%) of the 
Group’s revenue for the year. Sales increased by 13% and 
proﬁts improved signiﬁcantly on the prior year , continuing 
the trend established in 2011. 
Growth was delivered across all business segments 
and, from an operational perspective, we achieved good 
execution of production, procurement and shipping.
Whilst our business has enjoyed growth with our 
major customers, including the world’s largest retailers, 
we have developed and expanded our trading base, 
with over 1,000 new customers established over the 
last two years. In addition, we have also developed 
incremental product categories and customer channels 
for future growth. Of particular note is the growth 
achieved with retailers specialising in $1 priced 
merchandise, where we provide great design 
and value to a fast growing market. 10 International Greetings plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer's review (continued)
Customers and licences continued
Whilst we have long established relationships with 
many of the world’s major retailers, there remains 
signiﬁcant opportunity for us to expand our business 
with existing customers, as well as with targeted new 
customers and channels. We remain fully aware of 
the changing dynamics in the marketplace and have 
established a flexible and efﬁcient manufacturing 
and sourcing base to meet the needs of our customers 
in a competitive marketplace, offering global scale 
with local knowledge and service.
Our team
Our teams across the Group have continued to meet the 
challenges of combatting cost inflation, whilst providing 
the highest standards of product and service to customers 
whose focus and main areas of growth have been in 
entry level price point categories. This has been reflected 
in the impressive growth of our gross margins through 
the combination of driving efﬁciency and adding value 
through innovation.
I take the opportunity of thanking our teams for their 
energy, enthusiasm and commitment in continuing to 
drive our business forward.
Our strategy
Our ﬁve key focus points enable us to achieve high 
standards and reach the targets we set ourselves:
 Nurturing the mutually valuable relationships we 
enjoy with our customers, suppliers and stakeholders.
 Creating a toolbox of marketing, design, product 
and brand category expertise.
 Providing best quality value and service through 
optimum product development, manufacturing, 
sourcing and supply.
 Giving our teams across the world the knowledge 
and tools needed to achieve their goals.
 Balancing our business, through sustainable and 
growing sales across geographic regions, seasons, 
product categories and brands.
Designed to succeed
The disciplines and processes that have been put in 
place in recent years to enable us to signiﬁcantly reduce 
debt and improve leverage remain important to us. 
We have now established an organisation, strategy 
and culture to sustain existing income streams and 
drive proﬁtable expansion of our global businesses, 
which are increasingly working together to drive 
efﬁciencies and harness opportunities. 
Whilst one of our core competencies is our ability to 
design commercially appealing products that meet the 
needs of our customers and consumers, we have focused 
our energies to ensure that all aspects of our business 
– operational, ﬁnancial and commercial – are designed 
to succeed.
I am delighted that our 2011/12 results were ahead 
of market expectations and we are focused on achieving 
continued sustained growth across the business during 
2012/13 and beyond. We remain focused on identifying new 
opportunities and implementing plans for future growth 
and ultimately on continuing to drive shareholder value. 
Paul Fineman
CEO
we 
olders.
t 
h 
ge 
d
ns, 
