 8 International Greetings plc Annual report and financial statements 2013
Key achievements
•	 Operating profit up 34% to £9.1 million 
after exceptional items
•	 Double digit growth in earnings per share
•	 Continued double digit profit growth 
in sales and profits in the USA
•	 Completion of China factory relocation
•	 Gift packaging and greetings product 
sales exceed £150 million
•	 Order placed in April 2013 for major 
£6 million gift wrap capital investment 
project in the UK
I am pleased to report a year of progress on many 
fronts resulting in the achievement of our key objective 
of double digit earnings per share growth, with 
operating profit after exceptional items of £9.1 million, 
up 34%.
Sales revenue at £225 million was achieved through a 
continuing focus on offering exceptional value to our 
customers and consumers across the globe.
Our manufacturing businesses continued to produce 
record volumes of product. The year saw the 
completion of the relocation of our gift bags, greetings 
cards and Christmas cracker manufacturing plant in 
China and the first season of production in Holland 
using our new high speed, high definition printing 
facility. This initial phase of investments into enhanced 
environmentally friendly gift wrap production has now 
been followed by a second phase in the UK where 
our project to install identical technology has now 
commenced, allowing us to compete whilst providing 
market leading service and value.
Geographical highlights
UK	and	 Asia
The UK and Asia business accounted for 53% (2012: 54%) 
of the Group’s revenue for the year. The collaborative 
efforts of our UK businesses and China based 
manufacturing and sourcing facilities has resulted in 
securing, for the first time, significant commitments 
from all of the UK major blue‑chip grocers for products 
designed for the forthcoming 2013 Christmas season.
Additionally we are delighted to have continued 
recent years’ growth in the everyday greeting 
cards category and our credibility in this area is 
demonstrated by a two year commitment received 
for everyday cards from the UK’s largest £1 only 
multiple retailer.
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Growing today and 
investing for the future.
Paul Fineman
CEO  International Greetings plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 9
Overview 1 to 7 Business review 8 to 1 5 Governance 16 to 27 Financials 28 to 80
Whilst we continue to enjoy a major share of the UK’s 
gift wrap market, we have also secured significant 
incremental business for the supply of everyday gift 
wrap to one of the world’s largest home furnishings 
retailers.
Mainland	 Eur ope
Mainland Europe continues to be the most challenging 
of our key markets with revenue at 13% of Group sales 
(2012: 13%).
Nevertheless, an encouraging initial year of production 
utilising new state‑of‑the‑art machinery in Holland has 
resulted in the award of significant incremental business 
for 2013/14 when volumes are expected to increase 
despite market conditions.
USA
Our ambitious plans for sales and profit growth were 
achieved in the USA with revenue exceeding 22% 
of Group sales (2012: 20%). Once again, growth was 
delivered across all market segments, including over 
750 new ‘upscale’ customers as well as further growth 
with the $1 specialist retail sector.
The businesses outstanding innovation and customer 
service was recognised by the world’s third largest 
retailer, Target Corporation, with a Vendor Partner 
Award, demonstrating that we continue to grow whilst 
focusing on delivering customer needs. The ongoing 
growth in demand for gift wrap manufactured within 
our operations based in Savannah, Georgia, will be 
further supported by a £0.5m fast pay back capital 
investment programme during 2013.
A us tralia
Artwrap in Australia accounted for 12% (2012: 13%) of 
the Group’s revenue for the year. Sales volumes were 
impacted by the voluntary insolvency of a material 
customer which gave rise to an exceptional charge in 
the year. However, a speedy response to this setback 
and a focus on other market opportunities bodes well 
for the future.
Customers and licences
More than 500 million units of our products are 
now sold in over 100,000 retail outlets and in over 
80 countries worldwide.
Our generic brands have grown in popularity and now 
represent 56% of our sales. Licenced brands remain 
an important and successful area in our portfolio with 
2013 once again seeing growth in sales of Peppa Pig 
products and a very strong performance of Hello Kitty 
and Moshi Monster product categories.
Whilst new customers are continually introduced 
across all markets, we are enjoying the benefits of 
close relationships with long‑term, well established and 
growing customers.
Our team
We embrace the changing dynamics across global 
markets and benefit from the passion and commitment 
of our teams across all businesses. I thank them, 
once again, for their ingenuity and enthusiasm as we 
continue to grow and strive to ‘raise the bar’ across all 
aspects of our business.
Our strategy
The focal points of our strategy remain as relevant 
today as ever. Our targets are to dominate the gift 
packaging and value stationery markets in which we 
operate by:
•	 nurturing the mutually valuable relationships we 
enjoy with our customers, suppliers and stakeholders;
•	 creating a toolbox of marketing, design, product 
and brand category expertise;
•	 providing best quality, value and service through 
optimum product development, manufacturing, 
sourcing and supply;
•	 giving our teams across the world the knowledge 
and tools needed to achieve their goals; and
•	 balancing our business, through sustainable and 
growing sales across geographic regions, seasons, 
product categories and brands.
The future
We are at an exciting stage of our Group’s 
development and have begun a compelling 
programme of investment in manufacturing in Europe, 
the USA and the UK and have completed a major 
factory relocation in China. This has been achieved 
whilst securing increased funding on improved terms.
Our new three year plan is on track to deliver double 
digit cumulative average growth in earnings per share, 
whilst remaining committed to debt reduction and 
leverage below two times debt/EBITDA.
We have identified new opportunities for incremental 
growth and shall continue to deploy our resources and 
energy in accelerating and enhancing this process.
Paul Fineman
CEO
