 6 International Greetings plc Annual report and financial statements 2013
Key achievements
•	 Revenue from continued operations 
increased by 2% to £225.2 million
•	 Operating profit, after exceptional 
items increased by 34%
•	 Profits, after exceptional items and 
post‑tax, increased by 188% to 
£4.1 million
I am pleased to report that Fiscal 2013 has been a year 
of continued effective reorganisation of our Group, as 
we strengthen our foundations and commit to further 
capital expenditure and investment. These measures 
will assist us in achieving increased manufacturing 
efficiencies and improved profitability going forward.
Revenues for the year ended 31 March 2013 rose by 2% 
to £225 million from continuing operations. Operating 
profit after exceptional items was up 34% to £9.1 million, 
whilst profit after exceptional items and tax increased 
from £1.4 million for the year ended 31 March 2012 to 
£4.1 million, in the year under review.
In my statement last year, I reported that an important 
part of our strategy was to focus on improving our 
operating and manufacturing efficiencies, in order to 
increase our profits going forward. To this end, during 
the year we completed the relocation of our factory 
in China, which will improve our efficiency and cost 
effectiveness during 2014 and thereafter. 
Chairman’s statement
A year of continued 
reorganisation and 
alignment, as we 
strengthen our foundations 
for profitable growth.
John Charlton
Chairman  International Greetings plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 7
Overview 1 to 7 Business review 8 to 1 5 Governance 16 to 27 Financials 28 to 80
The investment we made to install state‑of‑the‑art 
printing equipment in our gift wrap manufacturing 
facility in Holland is delivering the benefits we 
anticipated and providing confidence going forward. 
As a consequence, in April 2013 we placed the order 
to install identical printing presses in our UK gift wrap 
manufacturing plant, which will deliver significant 
improvements in efficiency for the future. The markets 
in which we operate throughout the world continue to 
be very competitive and challenging. In this respect, 
we shall continue to look at ways to reduce costs and 
unnecessary expense, whilst doing all that we can to 
increase revenues.
During the year we strengthened our Board with the 
appointment of Phil Dutton as a Non‑Executive Director 
in May 2012. Phil is also Chair of our Audit Committee 
and a member of our Remuneration Committee. 
We also appointed Lance Burn and Rich Eckman to 
our Main Board. Lance is Managing Director of our 
largest subsidiary in Europe – IGUK and also Managing 
Director of our recently relocated facility in China. 
Rich is Managing Director of IGUSA – our subsidiary in 
the USA. IGUK and IGUSA have significantly improved 
profitability under Lance and Rich’s management. 
These appointments, working together with our existing 
Board members, now give us a better balance and 
composition of the Board. I wish Phil, Lance and Rich 
every success and fulfilment within their responsibilities 
and I look forward to working with them. I should like 
to thank all my colleagues on the Board for their hard 
work, commitment, loyalty and support to our Group, 
but also to me personally. I also wish to place on record 
our thanks and appreciation to all our employees 
within the Group. It is through their efforts and support 
that our Group continues to make progress and we are 
grateful for their loyalty.
Finally, I thank our shareholders, bankers, customers, 
suppliers and advisers for their loyalty and contributions 
to all our businesses throughout the world. We never 
forget that this group of persons always have a choice 
and we remain very mindful of their support, which we 
value greatly.
John Charlton
Chairman
