 04 International Medical Devices plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006
Chief Executive’s Report
In September 2005 IMD began the construction of a new, UK-based
medical device distribution business. Following the acquisition of
Meddis Ltd (Meddis), in September 2005, IMD successfully
concluded the £6.3 million acquisition of Response Medical Group
(Response) in April. On 1 August the Group added EMS Medical as
its latest acquisition.
Response is a proven, profitable distributor with a strong, professional
management team and I regard it as IMD’s aircraft carrier. The
response busines and management are Pivotal to the Group and IMD
is now looking to develop its future business, through a combination
of acquisition and organic growth.
The IMD business model is based both on acquisitions and the
development of IP and the distribution rights acquired. By pursuing
both routes, there is a balance of risk that will ensure shareholder
value. Our approach to acquisitions is to generate cross sales of
products, cost savings via rationalisation of warehousing operations
and administration functions and, with access to the acquired IP and
distribution rights, to vigorously promote organic growth of the
business.
Chris Thomas
Chief Executive Officer
Acquisition of EMS Medical
The cornerstone of our products in aged care is the continence care
range of established brands in Kylie, Kanga and Martex.
“The IMD business model is based both on
acquisitions and the exploitation of our IP.” 05 www.imd-plc.com Stock Exchange Code: INT.L
Business Strategy
IMD’s business strategy is focused on achieving three key objectives:
1. To establish and grow niche, technically orientated, medical
device distribution capability in the UK across four target market
sectors:
● Cardiorespiratory
● Medical Consumables
● Aged Care 
● Acute Care
2. To establish channels to market for the product portfolio by
acquiring established profitable medical device distribution
companies.
3. To continue to develop and exploit the IP and technology for ‘safe’
needles, with the objective of launching the ‘Clip-on’ product range
across key target markets by the last quarter of 2006.
The challenge faced by the operational management team, led by
John Butler, founder of Response, and Matthew Root are to absorb
the new acquisitions into the four divisional structures with the benefits
of making cost savings in the logistics and administration areas. 
The procedures and logistics established by the Group have allowed
this process of absorption to happen. For example, the Meddis sales
operations have merged, in capacity terms, with the Response team,
whilst accounting functions from both Meddis and EMS Medical have
been moved to the Response head office at Chipping Campden.
For the 2006/7 financial year the Group is now organised into four
divisions as shown overleaf.
Acquisition of Patents and Distribution Rights
Safe needle technology is an important new advance in the medical
devices field and IMD has acquired patents for five product lines:
Kylie Mattress Protector Martex Washable Protection Sheet
Safe needle technology products offer key advantages over traditional
medical products and will provide a competitive edge in the global
marketplace for some time to come.
• ClipOn
• SafeLine
• AutoInjecta
• ReverSyringe
• Retralok 06 International Medical Devices plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006
Chief Executive’s Report
continued
Acute Care
Suction catheters for respiratory applications and wound drains
represent a market size of around £5 million for each product
segment. IMD offers its own branded range of suction catheter,
‘Caretip’, and in wound drains IMD represents Produkte fur die
Medizin AG (‘Pfm’), one of Germany’s leading independent sales
specialists for medical devices in the fields of pathology/histology,
OP/anaesthesia, infusion therapy and interventional technologies.
Other key products in the acute care portfolio include a range of
ophthalmic scalpels (Feather) and a specialist respiratory product
‘Steritalc’ from Novatech in France for the treatment of chronic
pleurisies and malignant and spontaneous pneumothorax.
Aged Care
The Ypsomed range of ‘Penfine’ diabetic needles are ‘selfcare health
solutions’, whilst the acquisition of EMS Medical provides a focus on
the aged care sector. The range of products and brands sold in the
division include a range of washable continence care protection
(‘Martex’), a foot operated irrigation system for ureteroscopy (‘Peditrol’),
tracheotomy and endotracheal care (‘Breeze’ head and neck), and
continence care products (‘Kylie’ and ‘Kanga’).
IMD intends to exploit the bed products developed by Eastland
Medical Systems Limited in Australia, and intends to launch them by
2007. Representing Salter Labs, IMD distributes an extensive range of
specialist oxygen cannulae, oxygen masks, nebulisers and oxygen
supply tubing and accessories.
Medical Consumables
A key driver in the IMD business is the development within our
product portfolio of a range of medical consumables. These
include complementary disposables sold in parallel with capital
sales like electrodes, cables, BP cuffs, Sp02, defibrillator pads and
paper. We are currently beginning to sell a range of consumables
under our own ‘Response Medical’ brand. Response Medical will
launch the ‘Clip-on’ safe needle product in the fourth quarter of
2006. 
EMS Medical contributes its ‘Tubicare’ range of disposables
including catheters, eye shields, naso-gastric bile bags, utility clips,
amniotic hooks and medical tubing.
Cardiorespiratory
The bulk of this division comprises sales of defibrillators and ECG
recorders, in particular the Welch Allyn range of Propaq monitors.
Response has recently been awarded exclusive UK rights to A&E
departments and theatre recovery for CPAP , a continuous airway
pressure system from Respironics Inc. Other brands sold include
Medicapteurs, Tyco and Medis.
Our four divisions: 07 www.imd-plc.com Stock Exchange Code: INT.L
Focus
The focus on the four key market sectors outlined above allows IMD
to exploit its portfolio of strong brands that are targeted at areas of
the NHS where procurement practices are non-discretionary. Our
ongoing aim is to continue to offer the NHS a range of quality
products and brands sought by clinicians. Our sales teams cover
every hospital in the UK where they work alongside clinicians to
provide solutions and also to develop supply relationships with PASA
(‘NHS Logistics’). 
In October 2006, NHS Logistics will be outsourced to DHL. This
contract will have an impact on procurement of NHS supplies,
particularly, I believe, where PASA will look for better prices in
commodity items. DHL will subcontract procurement outsourcing to
Novation, a US-based group procurement organisation, in order to
find better value for money contracts and engage more hospitals to
reduce local purchasing contract agreements. This will offer IMD
opportunities to act as a UK-wide ‘sales house’. In September 2006,
NHS logistics launched its ‘Home Delivery Continence Care
Catalogue’ (www.logistics.nhs.uk). EMS Medical, with its wide range
of continence products, occupies a significant part of this catalogue. 
Summary
IMD has spent the last 12 months putting in place the structures to
provide the Company with growth areas for the future. These will be:
1. Further acquisitions
2. Organic growth from acquired and existing products and brands
3. The exploitation of our IP via new product launches and
achieving fast routes to markets
4. Acquisition of new distribution agreements from ‘major’ principals
as our reputation grows
We continue to rely on our business partners both in the UK and
overseas. I hope they see IMD becoming an integral part of their sales
solutions.
Finally I would like to stress that it is individual commitment to a group
effort that makes a team work, a company work, a society work, and
a civilisation work. This is the ethic that I hope IMD will engineer
amongst employees, and which will carry the Company further on its
growth path. 
Christopher Thomas
Chief Executive Officer
3 October 2006
