 02 International Medical Devices plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006
Chairman’s Statement
This has been a rewarding 12 months for International Medical
Devices (“IMD”) and in this period your Company has successfully
concluded three acquisitions, establishing a growing and profitable
medical devices trading house. 
The Company’s continued focus has been to acquire high quality
product portfolio’s of established brands with proven management,
and companies with track records of sales growth, solid margins and
profits. 
The three companies acquired — Meddis, Response Medical and
EMS Medical — operate in different market sectors therefore enabling
IMD to establish a focused divisional structure which will allow the
targeting of non-discretionary spend on medical devices by the NHS
and the private sector.
During the year ahead IMD will focus on four specific sectors:
— Cardiorespiratory
— Medical Consumables
— Aged Care 
— Acute Care
A recent Association of British Healthcare Institute (ABHI) survey of
these four sectors, which account for approximately 50% of the UK
medical devices market, has shown that they are seeing an 8–10%
per annum market growth. This is due to:
● an ageing population
● increasing Department of Health spending
● rising demand for safety medical devices
● an increasing emphasis on medical innovation within the NHS
procurement process, that is driven by the need for new
products, to meet the challenges facing the delivery of higher
quality care
“Life is short, and the Art long; the occasion fleeting; experience fallacious, and judgement difficult. The physician must not only 
be prepared to do what is right himself, but also to make the patient, the attendants, and externals cooperate.” Hippocrates. 
Lindsay C.S. Sanford
Chairman
Steritalc from Novatech (France)
Meddis — “Caretip” brand of suction
catheters 03 www.imd-plc.com Stock Exchange Code: INT.L
IMD’s ambition is to create a leading and profitable medical devices
distribution business. UK healthcare spending is set to increase by
more than 7% per year up to and including 2008. The NHS budget
for 2005 was a reported £84 billion which is equal to healthcare
expenditure per capita of £1,436. This is bringing the UK closer to
Germany and France in terms of per capita spend, and the
government has stated that the 2007/2008 budget for the NHS will
rise to £105 billion, a doubling of overall healthcare expenditure 
since 1997. 
IMD is well positioned to move forward, by combining innovative
Intellectual Property (‘IP’) that is controlled and owned by the Group,
with our ability to exploit its value in the marketplace by utilising the
distribution network that our acquisition programme has put in place.
Today, IMD owns a portfolio of ‘safe’ needle technology and IP , and
brands in devices including suction catheters (‘Caretip’ brands),
ureteroscopy (‘Peditrol’), plastic tubing (‘Tubicare’), head and neck
products (‘Breeze’) and incontinence care (‘Kylie’ and ‘Kanga’).
In the year ahead we intend to launch our safe needle, ‘Clip-on’, and
a range of beds for the hospital and elderly care markets. We will also
continue our acquisition programme and a detailed, investigative
process is ongoing to identify a number of target companies that
meet our strict screening criteria; these include complementary
product ranges and brands that can deliver synergies and cost
savings, particularly in logistics and administration.
IMD has achieved its first year growth objectives and has created the
opportunities for an even better next 12 months. The Board wishes to
thank all staff and executives for their exceptional effort during the
year and looks forward to providing future success to you as
shareholders. The Board is confident we will succeed.
Lindsay C.S. Sanford
Chairman
3 October 2006
