 Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Dear Shareholder,
2006 was a strong year, with very good operational and financial
performance reflected in a significant increase in our share price. 
The key commercial drivers were the continued recovery of the US 
and UK merchant markets, together with contributions from selected
acquisitions and greenfield growth projects. However, none of this
would have been possible without the continued enthusiasm,
commitment and drive from our dedicated teams of professionals
across the entire Group, and I thank every individual for this. 
This performance needs to be viewed in the wider context of our
industry. Power generation, and the energy sector as a whole, is right at
the centre of a number of key international debates, including security
of supply, high and volatile fuel prices, the environmental impact of
emissions, and carbon dioxide in particular, technology advances, and
government energy policies. It is critically important that we actively
keep all these key themes under continual review to ensure we
understand their impact and therefore best position International Power
in all of the markets in which we operate.
Clear strategy to create value
Our results are based on a clear strategy to create value from power
generation and very closely related activities, such as desalination and
district heating. A key strength comes from our international portfolio
approach, which provides a breadth of geography, market structure, fuel,
and technology. This portfolio approach not only provides excellent risk
mitigation, but also outstanding access to growth opportunities across
all of our markets. Growth continues to be an important part of our
business model, and our combination of in-depth regional market
knowledge with a rigorous capital allocation process is designed to
ensure only the best projects are selected. We will continue to focus on
both carefully researched liberalised merchant markets, where we take
full price risk for the power that we generate, and regulated markets
where we have long-term offtake arrangements for our power with
contractually agreed pricing. 
Our overarching criterion, irrespective of the market structure in which 
we operate, is that our investments make money for our shareholders
over the long-term. To deliver strong performance over the long-term, we
must have strong values that all International Power employees ascribe to
and live by. It is our values and behaviour that drive our performance, and
it is worth a short reminder of our five core values, listed below.
These values, running through the heart of our core competencies –
greenfield development, acquisitions, financing, asset and project
management, trading, and plant operations – will continue to be 
our foundation.
A successful year – strong operational 
and financial performance
In terms of performance in 2006, it was a very good year across the
portfolio with all regions contributing well, but with especially strong
performances in the UK and in the US. Environmental upgrades and
initiatives are a common theme across our portfolio, and you will see
reference to a number of these in this review.
North America In the US, our two key merchant markets of Texas 
and New England continued their recovery. Oversupply continues to 
be reduced through consistent demand growth, enabling our plants 
in both Texas and New England to run at higher load factors and at
higher margins than in 2005. In July 2006, we acquired Coleto Creek, 
a 632 MW coal fired plant in Texas, and this asset has been quickly 
and successfully integrated into our US portfolio. Coleto Creek provides
good fuel diversity, and its access to low cost, low sulphur Powder River
Basin coal from Wyoming represents a long-term cost advantage. We
are now investing to improve the environmental performance of Coleto
Creek by upgrading its dust emission control equipment. Coleto Creek
also comes with expansion potential at site, and we are keeping this
growth opportunity under close review. In New England, December
2006 saw the introduction of an enhanced Forward Capacity Market –
this is a very welcome development, as it rewards capacity for 
being available.
Europe In Europe, the main driver for the increase in profits was the UK.
As in the US, the reserve margin – the difference between installed
capacity and peak demand – continues to reduce. This, when coupled
with a high oil and gas price that generally sets the price of power in
the UK, resulted in a much improved year for Rugeley, our 1,050 MW
coal fired plant. We are investing some £145 million in environmental
improvements at Rugeley to reduce sulphur and other emissions,
providing this plant with a long-term role within UK generation. Price
volatility, and the continual need for power at very short notice to
ensure security of supply, combined to make 2006 a very good year for
First Hydro, the largest fast-response pumped storage peaking unit in 
Chief Executive Officer’s statement 4
Our core values:
Financial discipline – we assess
opportunities and risks carefully, we won’t
overpay for assets, and we look after
shareholders’ investment
Integrity – honesty, openness, and fairness
underpin all our business dealings,
internally and externally
Respect – for the individual, for opinions, 
for nationalities, genders, religions and 
ethnic backgrounds
Safety – safe behaviour and attitude in
everything we do – all day, every day
Team culture – success in a complex business
means bringing people of many different
disciplines together into co-ordinated teams
P
P
P
P
P
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  09:05  Page 4 the UK. For gas fired generation, the high price of gas generally meant
that margins remained depressed – however, this was not the case for
Saltend, our 1,200 MW gas fired plant, as this plant benefited from an
attractively priced gas contract in 2006. 
The balance of our European portfolio is largely contracted, and
delivered an excellent performance, characterised by high plant
availability. As in the UK, we are also installing improved emission
control equipment at Pego, our Portuguese coal fired plant. We were
also very pleased to announce two acquisitions during the year – 
Indian Queens, a 140 MW peaking plant in the UK, and Levanto, a 
436 MW portfolio of wind farms in operation or under construction 
in Germany and France. Levanto represents our first significant move
into renewables in Europe, and we plan to use this as a platform for
further growth in renewables, using the acquired expertise and the
inherent development opportunities.
Middle East Our performance in the Middle East in 2006 reflects
additional capacity coming on line, our four plants in Saudi Arabia
progressively reached full commercial operation during the year, in
Qatar, our power and desalination plant commenced partial commercial
operation and we also acquired the Hidd power and desalination plant
in Bahrain in early 2006. By the end of 2006, we had 2,033 MW (net)
of power plant, and 75 MIGD (net) of desalination plant in operation in
the Middle East, with a further 355 MW (net) and 42 MIGD (net) due
to come into operation from existing projects. Our existing plants
continue to perform well under their long-term contracts, and we
continue to target this region as a source of long-term growth through
leveraging our operational and development skills, alongside our
excellent market relationships.
Australia In Australia, our headline profit is down, due to lower achieved 
prices which were anticipated in this merchant market. Our forward
contracting policy has significantly insulated the business from weaker
market prices over the last few years, but 2006 margins reflect more
recent, and hence lower, prices. However, the market background is
now more encouraging, with forward prices showing an improvement.
As we are largely contracted for 2007, we should see most of the
benefit from this improvement from 2008 onwards. We are also
investigating means of reducing carbon dioxide emissions from brown
coal generation at our Hazelwood plant in Victoria, working with both
federal and state governments, and with selected technology specialists.
This is a medium to long-term project, and we are pleased to be at 
the forefront of addressing such an important issue for Australian 
power generation.
Asia In Asia, all of our assets operate under long-term offtake contracts,
and all have performed well, with high availability the main driver. Profit
is a little down year-on-year, primarily because the tax free status of one
of our assets in Pakistan (KAPCO) has time expired, as originally
planned. We continue to target growth opportunities in Asia, including
both greenfield and acquisition opportunities, and accordingly we have
strengthened our development resources in the region.
Focus on growth opportunities
Our strong operational performance has been matched by a very
significant improvement in free cash flow. This ensures that our balance
sheet remains robust, with gearing and debt capitalisation at levels very
similar to last year, despite the acquisitions made during 2006. Our
corporate liquidity also remains good, providing us with great flexibility
to pursue growth opportunities, alongside our commitment to
progressively increase our dividend pay-out ratio.
The foundation of our business is stronger, and we are focused on
growth opportunities through greenfield development and acquisitions
across our core regions. Recovering power markets are resulting in
generally higher asset prices, but we will use our key strengths of
regional market knowledge and financial discipline to ensure that we do
not overpay, and that long-term shareholder value remains at the very
top of our agenda.
Philip Cox
Chief Executive Officer 
Annual Report 2006 5
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  09:05  Page 5
