 Chief Executive Officer’s statement 4
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
Dear Shareholder
2007 was a year of further growth, with
significant improvement in earnings, free cash
flow and, very importantly, our share price. 
The key drivers were increased earnings in 
our European and North American markets.
Although this improvement was partially offset
by the impact of a very severe drought in
Australia, the strength of our global portfolio
ensured that we made good overall progress. 
Our position in five key international regions
continues to provide both a very solid earnings
and cash flow profile for the Group, and
exceptional access to growth opportunities.
Let me give you a few of these regional
highlights for 2007.
Portfolio performance 
In Europe, we benefited from much improved margins
at our UK plants, principally due to the well-timed
contracting of our 2007 output, and through high
levels of operational performance. We also standardised
our shareholdings with Mitsui in our major UK plants,
(75% International Power, 25% Mitsui) and this
provides an efficient structure for the future. Our
continental European portfolio also had a good year
with consistently high availability at our long-term
contracted plants. Our Levanto wind farm, acquired 
in November 2006, was successfully integrated and
delivered a full year contribution in 2007.
In the US, our markets in Texas and New England
maintain their underlying recovery as the balance
between installed capacity and peak demand continues
to tighten. However, because it was a relatively cool
summer in 2007 and air conditioning demand was
lower, underlying margins showed only a modest
improvement over last year. New England benefited
from a full year of capacity income, and 2007 also saw
a full year contribution from our coal fired Coleto
Creek plant, where we successfully installed a major
upgrade to its dust extraction equipment. All our long-
term contracted plants continued to perform well.
Both the Middle East and Asia are markets where
output is totally covered by long-term offtake
contracts, and where our financial return is primarily
dependent on high levels of plant availability. Our
track record is consistently strong here, and we had
another very good year. Earnings grew in the Middle
East principally through a first full year contribution
from the Tihama project in Saudi Arabia, and we were
pleased to announce in August 2007 the award of
our latest project in the Middle East, Fujairah F2, a
new-build 2,000 MW and 130 MIGD installation in
the UAE. We continue to be very active in targeting
growth opportunities in this fast expanding region.
Performance at all our Asian plants was good, and 
we successfully divested our 18% stake in Malakoff 
in Malaysia in 2007, crystallising a significant 
£115 million profit. We also acquired a further 9%
economic interest in Paiton (Indonesia) from Mitsui.
The Australian business faced a challenging year,
principally due to the very severe drought. The lack 
of water had the effect of reducing hydro output, and
restricting some thermal power generation where fresh
water was needed for cooling. This, in turn, made
pricing exceptionally volatile and adversely impacted us
when we needed to cover contractual positions if our
plants were not available for operational reasons or
when the transmission networks could not cope with
demand. On the positive side, this volatility has resulted
in a significant improvement in forward prices, so the
outlook for the Australian business is much improved.
Industry trends
The key trends in our industry continue to be security
of supply, the drive for lower carbon dioxide (CO
2
)
emissions and environmental upgrades, and the
provision of affordable power in the face of rising
prices for both new power generation equipment and
for fuel. These are major issues in all the markets in
which we operate, and span the energy, economic and
political agendas. Power generation is by its nature a
large-scale and long-term industry, so the decisions we
make today have an impact many years into the future.
We believe that security of supply is best protected 
by having a diversified and balanced power
generation fleet – in terms of both technology and
fuel type. This ensures no undue reliance on any one
fuel or technology provider, and our global portfolio
encompassing natural gas, coal, wind, pumped
storage, hydro and oil addresses this point directly.
We have excellent, in-depth skills across this wide
range of technologies. Security of supply also means
that the regulatory structure in each market needs 
to be transparent and consistent over the long-term
– without this, it is extremely difficult to make long-
term investment decisions, and we are therefore very
strong supporters of free and open markets with 
a minimum of government intervention.
IMPROVED EARNINGS, FREE CASH FLOW 
AND SHARE PRICE
SIGNIFICANT EXPANSION OF OUR 
RENEWABLES BUSINESS
EXCEPTIONAL ACCESS TO GROWTH
OPPORTUNITIES IN TARGETED MARKETS  International Power Annual Report 2007 5
The environmental debate in the power sector is 
often centred on CO
2
reductions, but in reality is much
wider and includes the reduction of sulphur and other
emissions. We are addressing all of these issues. On
CO
2
, some 57% of our portfolio is modern, efficient 
gas fired generation, and we are implementing efficiency
improvements at our coal fired plants in the UK and
Australia to reduce their CO
2
intensity. In Australia 
we are also working with both the state and federal
governments to see how brown coal can be dried 
prior to burning, which could provide a very significant
reduction in CO
2
output, and we are working on a pilot
plant for CO
2
capture. These are early but important
steps, and we want to ensure we are at the forefront of
these initiatives. In the UK and Portugal, we are installing
flue gas desulphurisation (FGD) equipment in 2008 to
reduce sulphur emissions at our coal fired plants. In the
US we installed an improved dust extraction system that
also allows improved mercury capture. 
2007 was also a very significant year for the expansion
of our renewables business. We acquired 660 MW of
operating wind farms, including the Maestrale wind
farm portfolio, based principally in Italy. The Maestrale
portfolio is now run alongside the Levanto wind farm
portfolio, which we acquired towards the end of 2006
and is based principally in Germany. Our strategy is to
work with wind farm developers to source further
growth opportunities where we can add value, and we
now have some 1,199 MW of operational wind farms
with a further 6 MW under construction. 
Outlook for growth
Growth in demand for power in all our markets –
both the developed and the developing world – is
clearly good for the outlook of our business, but, 
of course, new power generation has to be affordable
for the local market. This is a major challenge as the
global market is now experiencing very significant 
cost escalation in both power generation equipment
and in fuel costs, all driven by high worldwide demand. 
We are very experienced power developers with 
a good track record and strong relationships 
with the major equipment manufacturers, 
and therefore we can continue to 
deliver good value as demonstrated 
by our latest project award in the 
Middle East for a large power 
and desalination plant.
Our strategy remains to deliver growth in shareholder
value through operating our existing portfolio to the
highest standards, and by growing in our targeted
markets. We are well positioned financially, with strong
free cash flow and liquidity, and good access to the
non-recourse project finance market, which remains
relatively resilient through the recent tightening of 
the global credit markets. We have an excellent highly
skilled team and I would like to thank all our employees
worldwide for their enthusiasm, commitment and
professionalism. Our business is in good shape, we
have a strong platform for the future, and a range of
growth opportunities across the portfolio. We will keep
our financial discipline to ensure we employ our capital
wisely, and we will remain agile to capture
opportunities in our target markets.
Philip Cox
Chief Executive Officer
