 Chairman’s statement 2
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Dear Shareholder
Your Company has once again delivered a good
performance. In 2007 profit from operations*
was up 17% to £904 million, earnings per
share* (EPS) increased by 21% from 22.4p 
to 27.1p, and free cash flow also improved
strongly by 43% to £653 million.
This overall increase in profit from operations 
was principally driven by improved results from our
European and North American regions. Our European
business delivered a particularly strong performance
with a £124 million increase in profit from 
operations to £574 million in 2007. The key driver 
in this region was the UK where profit from
operations benefited from the forward contracting
strategy that we put in place during 2006. In North
America, a first full year contribution from Coleto
Creek in Texas, together with enhanced capacity
payments in New England were key in driving profit
from operations up by £35 million to £136 million 
in 2007. Although we had a challenging year in
Australia, mainly due to the very severe drought, 
we expect to achieve improved margins in 2008, 
as power prices recover. Our long-term contracted
plants in Asia and the Middle East continue to
perform well with growth in profit from operations
through good operational performance and a
contribution from new assets.
GROWTHISA
KEY STRATEGIC
FOCUS FOR THE
BUSINESS International Power Annual Report 2007 3
We grew our generation portfolio during 2007 both
through acquisitions and greenfield development. The
most significant expansion was in wind generation
where we acquired 660 MW of operational capacity
and 55 MW under construction, located in Italy,
Germany and the Netherlands. Together with existing
wind power assets our total wind portfolio now
comprises 1,199 MW in operation. 
Profitable growth remains a key strategic focus for
International Power. Tightening power supply driven
by the need to replace old capacity and a growing
demand for power in many of our markets presents
us with multiple greenfield and acquisition
opportunities in both our existing and new markets. 
I am pleased to report that our experience, proven
track record and healthy balance sheet place us in a
good position to deliver further growth in the future.
In October 2007, the Board introduced the payment 
of an interim dividend of 2.77 pence per Ordinary
Share. Interim dividends will be calculated as a fixed
percentage (35%) of the previous year’s full year
dividend. The Board is proposing a final dividend of
7.39 pence per share for the year which, including the
interim dividend, will take the total for 2007 to 10.16
pence per share. This represents an EPS pay-out ratio
of 37.5%, up from 35% last year. Our dividend policy
remains to progressively grow the dividend to an EPS
pay-out ratio of 40%.
I would like to thank Adri Baan who, having served
on the Board for five years, retired on 31 December
2007. During this time he chaired the Remuneration
Committee and made a valuable contribution to 
the growth of the business. John Roberts now 
takes over from Adri as Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee. 
In June 2007 Alan Murray joined the Company as 
a Non-Executive Director. Alan, who has a finance
background, was latterly CEO of Hanson plc and 
is now on the Managing Board of Heidelberg 
Cement AG. He has taken over as Chairman of the
Audit Committee following the completion of the
2007 accounts. 
During 2007 we reviewed our US listing. The US
corporate governance regulatory requirements,
following the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, involved the
introduction of an unreasonably burdensome and
expensive administrative environment across the
Group. As less than 1% of the traded volume of 
our shares occurred in New York, we decided in 
June 2007 to deregister and delist from the SEC 
and NYSE respectively. Prior to deregistering, we
received an unqualified opinion from KPMG that 
we had achieved compliance with the requirements 
of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in relation 
to our US reporting for the 2006 financial year. 
The Board remains confident that a proper control
framework is in place across the Group.
Measures to control climate change and the
protection of the environment continue to affect 
our industry and we expect them to do so for the
foreseeable future. Throughout this report you will
read about our approach towards these issues. They
range from investing in renewables businesses to
improving the carbon efficiency of existing assets and
investing human resources and capital into upcoming
renewable technologies, all with the aim of protecting
and increasing shareholder value.
The Board has also established a new Health, Safety
and Environment (HS&E) Committee. The Committee
is chaired by Struan Robertson and comprises one
other Non-Executive Director and the CEO. The
Committee, which started to operate from January
2008, will review the Group’s HS&E policies,
objectives and performance.
Last year, I visited a number of sites including our
Coleto Creek coal fired plant in Texas, the Levanto
wind business in Germany and, with the whole Board,
the Shuweihat CCGT and desalination plant in the
UAE. Once again, as with our other plants around the
world, I was highly impressed by the commitment of
the staff at our sites. It is only through the efforts of 
all our employees that we are able to develop the
Company and enhance its performance. Therefore, 
on behalf of both the Board and shareholders, I am
pleased to acknowledge their contribution and to
thank them here for all their hard work as we
continue to find ways to grow your business.
Sir Neville Simms
Chairman
* All references to profit from operations and earnings per share in the
Chairman’s statement are before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 
mark to market movements.
