 I am pleased to report a strong performance from 
the Group in 2008 where Profit From Operations* 
(PFO) rose 16% to £1,050 million and Earnings Per 
Share* (EPS) increased 20% to 32.4 pence from 
27.1 pence in 2007.
2008 again demonstrated the strength of our 
portfolio. PFO was up in all regions with particularly 
strong growth in Australia and North America. 
Good performance from the European assets, 
principally First Hydro, helped to offset the impact 
of the unplanned outage at Rugeley. Our plants in 
the Middle East and Asia operated well delivering  
a consistent performance.
We also achieved further growth across the 
portfolio with the acquisition of 2,437MW (net)  
of capacity in the US, Europe and Asia and the 
announcement of future greenfield capacity 
additions in Europe of 555MW (net). Four out of  
the five of these new investment opportunities 
arose from our existing assets and these four all 
have long-term power offtake contracts. These 
developments are particularly noteworthy as  
they were achieved against a backdrop of the  
credit crisis and a tight equipment supply market.
The turmoil in global financial markets and 
economic slowdown in major economies has, in  
one way or another, impacted the demand for many 
products and affected many businesses around the 
world. At International Power we deliver a service 
that remains key to the normal functioning of every 
economy and every household. Electricity is and will 
remain essential day and night. The need for our 
service, together with our international footprint, 
diversified fuel base and the balance of contract 
types (long-term and short-term), across developed 
and developing markets, offers good security for 
our business and its future in these uncertain times.
International Power’s financial position remains 
strong, with good liquidity, committed corporate 
bank facilities and strong free cash flow generation. 
Our business is capital-intensive but we have a 
robust capital structure and one that, through the 
use of non-recourse debt, allows us to maintain 
appropriate levels of debt in a relatively low risk 
manner. Through our broad geographic spread and 
our regional knowledge, we continue to have access 
to good growth opportunities. However, the value 
of financial prudence in the current economic 
environment is clear and accordingly we will invest 
our capital very carefully.
During 2008 we welcomed Ranald Spiers to  
the Board as the Executive Director responsible  
for the Middle East and Asia. Ranald has led the 
growth that has been achieved in our Middle East 
region over the last eight years, and his project 
development skills will be important as we seek  
to grow our business further, particularly in Asia.
I am pleased to report that the Board has 
established a Health, Safety and Environment 
(HS&E) Committee under the Chairmanship of 
Non-Executive Director, Struan Robertson. The 
Committee meets at least twice a year, at different 
power stations across the portfolio and, through its 
advisory role, reinforces the fact that these matters 
are as important to the Board as they are to our staff 
at power plants, development sites and offices 
around the world.
Staff commitment to our in-house behavioural 
safety programme, known as ‘Fresh Eyes’, along 
with improved management of health and safety 
issues, particularly during maintenance outages  
at our plants, delivered a further 25% reduction  
in the Group’s Accident Frequency Rate (AFR).
At International Power , we deliver a service that remains  
key to the normal functioning of every economy and every 
household. Electricity is and will remain essential day and night.
Chairman’s statement
 
*  All references to PFO and EPS in the Chairman’s  
statement are before exceptional items and  
specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Chairman’s statement 
International Power Annual Report 2008
2 We were able to deliver growth in earnings and 
generating capacity around the world in 2008, 
despite some challenges. The dedication displayed 
by our teams across the business was a key factor  
in our success, which would not have been possible 
without their commitment. On behalf of the Board, 
I would like to thank all our staff for the vital role  
that they play in the growth of our Company.
Looking forward to 2009, we have a well established 
portfolio of long-term contracted assets which 
continues to perform well. We are also well positioned 
in our key merchant markets, although forward 
pricing in the UK and the US does not reflect  
the attractive long-term market fundamentals.  
In the absence of a significant improvement in  
pricing in these two markets, it is likely that Group 
profitability in 2009 will be lower than in 2008. 
However, our assets are well placed to capture 
value, from both market recovery and short-term 
pricing volatility.
The financial position of the Group remains strong, 
with good corporate liquidity and no material 
refinancings in 2009. We expect to continue  
to deliver strong free cash flow in 2009.
Sir Neville Simms
Chairman
On the environmental front we track very carefully 
proposed legislation which targets reduced  
Carbon Dioxide (CO 2) emissions in our markets.  
We support these initiatives in principle, and we are 
actively involved in dialogue with governments and 
regulators to ensure a balanced outcome for our 
business. We will apply the experience gained from 
operating within the European Union Emissions 
Trading Scheme (EUETS) to any new scheme in our  
other markets, and will invest in renewables and  
other economically viable opportunities aimed  
at reducing carbon emissions from our plants.
Aside from managing carbon emissions, the 
installation of Flue Gas Desulphurisation (FGD) 
equipment at Rugeley in the UK, and at our Pego 
plant in Portugal, where Selective Catalytic 
Reduction (SCR) technology has also been fitted, 
will make a significant contribution to reducing 
atmospheric emissions.
In August last year, the Board announced an interim 
dividend of 3.56 pence per share (35% of the 
previous year’s full-year dividend). The Board is 
proposing a final dividend of 8.59 pence per share 
for the year which, including the interim dividend, 
will take the total for 2008 to 12.15 pence per share. 
This represents an increase of 20% on 2007 and  
an EPS* pay-out ratio of 37.5%.
Business overview 3
