 2008 was certainly an unprecedented year across  
all markets, as the severity of the credit and banking 
crisis, and its dramatic impact on the global 
economy, really started to become apparent. 
Clearly, no sector or company is immune from these 
wider market conditions, but electricity remains a 
domestic, industrial, and commercial necessity. Our 
geographic spread across North America, Europe, 
the Middle East, Australia and Asia continues to be  
a major strength, ensuring no over-concentration  
of risk in any one market and allowing us to focus our 
growth initiatives where we see the most potential.
In these market conditions, strong free cash flow 
generation, good liquidity, and an absence of major 
near-term refinancings are all very good indicators 
of financial position, and I am pleased to report that 
we score well on all these criteria. We generated 
free cash flow (after maintenance capital 
expenditure, interest, and tax) of £513 million in 
2008, retained good liquidity at the corporate 
centre, have minimal project refinancings in 2009, 
and the vast majority of our debt is non-recourse  
to the parent company.
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
We have a strong balance sheet with good free cash flow and 
liquidity, and our international spread across North America, 
Europe, the Middle East, Australia and Asia continues to be a 
major strength.
Regional reviews
The regional reviews, on pages 36 to 51, give  
you an in-depth analysis of the business, but let me 
give you an overview of some of the highlights and 
key issues.
In North America, our Profit From Operations 
(PFO) increased, principally through an improved 
performance from our gas and coal-fired plants in 
Texas. Hays benefited from a higher achieved spark 
spread and load factor, as a result of higher demand 
and transmission constraints while Coleto Creek 
operated at a significantly higher load factor of 90% 
compared to 75% in 2007. We also successfully 
concluded the acquisition of four peaking plants  
in the north eastern and mid western US markets 
(PJM and MISO regions) that we have targeted for 
some time. These are high quality, modern, and 
efficient plants which have been quickly integrated 
into our US portfolio. Forward power prices have 
reduced principally on the back of lower oil and  
gas prices, and on expectations of lower demand 
growth. Forward margins in the power market do 
not yet reflect the strong fundamentals across our 
major US merchant markets, and for this reason,  
we are relatively lightly forward contracted for 
2009. Our contracted assets in the region  
continue to perform well.
Our European portfolio performed well during 
2008, particularly in the UK where our gas-fired  
and pumped storage assets delivered excellent 
results, which helped to offset the extended  
outage at our Rugeley coal-fired plant. The fitting  
of Flue Gas Desulphurisation (FGD) at Rugeley will 
continue into 2009, and will ensure a longer life for 
this important asset. Overall, our UK portfolio is 
very well positioned to benefit from the attractive 
fundamentals of this market, and we have forward 
contracted output from selected plants for 2009 
where we have seen particular value. We acquired a 
further 40% of the Turbogás 1,008MW Combined 
Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) plant in Portugal during 
the year, and this plant continued to perform well, 
contributing to a strong performance from our 
long-term contracted assets across the region. 
Similarly, our European wind portfolio of 1,179MW 
operated well, although wind levels and resulting 
load factors were lower than long-term averages. 
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
International Power Annual Report 2008
4 At ISAB, where there was a major incident in 
October, one of the two units returned to service  
in mid December, with the second one expected  
to be back online in the middle of 2010. The Czech 
Republic power and district heating businesses  
had another excellent year, improving on a very 
strong 2007 performance. On the growth front, 
construction of the 830MW Elecgas CCGT plant 
in Portugal is making good progress and we 
were very pleased to announce the development 
and successful financing of the 420MW T-Power  
project in Belgium, in challenging financial market 
conditions, demonstrating the availability of 
non-recourse finance for high quality projects.
The Middle East is a good example of a market  
that continues to grow strongly despite the wider 
financial turmoil. The market is driven by strong 
fundamentals, even in a lower oil price environment, 
and we continue to see a range of near and 
longer-term growth opportunities that reflect the 
expansion and diversification of the economies in 
which we operate. Our existing portfolio continues 
to operate well with consistently high availability 
factors. We have established a strong presence  
in this important market and we are focused on 
growing and adding value for the long-term,  
with the construction of the Fujairah F2 plant 
(2,000MW and 130MIGD) in the UAE on schedule.
Australia had a much improved performance in 
2008, driven by better overall plant availability  
and by improved achieved market prices. The  
major issue for the power sector in Australia is  
the planned introduction of a Carbon Pollution 
Reduction Scheme (CPRS), in this market where 
coal (a relatively high emitter of carbon dioxide) 
represents the dominant share (some 85%) of total 
power generation. A government White Paper was 
published in December, followed by draft legislation 
in March 2009, and this provided some insight into 
the proposed scheme, but many more details need 
to be clarified before the full impact on our portfolio 
can be properly evaluated. The scheme is still 
planned for implementation in mid 2010, and the 
draft terms include assistance for brown coal-fired 
generation – which is the cornerstone of our 
Australian generation portfolio.
Our Asian portfolio comprises long-term 
contracted assets, where high plant availability is 
the key driver of value. We continue to deliver high 
operational standards, and therefore profitability 
has been consistently good. Demand for power 
continues to be strong, and is reflected in the 
growth opportunities across the region, and in 
Indonesia in particular. The planned expansion  
of our plant at Paiton in Indonesia, where we are 
seeking to add a further 815MW by 2012, is an 
excellent example of this growth. Payments from 
our government owned offtaker in Pakistan (Water 
and Power Development Authority) were delayed 
in 2008, as its cash flow was negatively impacted  
by the high price of oil. Various measures, including 
International Monetary Fund (IMF) assistance, give 
us confidence that this issue will be satisfactorily 
resolved. We continue to look carefully at selected 
new markets in this region, with Vietnam a clear 
focus, given its high growth rate and its desire  
to attract inward investment in the power sector.
Delivering maximum value
Operational excellence is core to our ability to 
deliver maximum value, and although we had some 
unplanned outages in 2008 – Rugeley and ISAB in 
particular – we always strive to learn the maximum 
possible from these events to ensure that we 
maintain the highest standards of plant safety  
and operations. We have a number of initiatives 
underway to constantly drive improved operational 
performance across the portfolio.
Our approach to environmental management  
has three major building blocks – improved 
environmental performance at our existing assets, 
the building of high efficiency plants where we 
develop greenfield growth opportunities, and the 
expansion of our significant renewables portfolio. 
Examples include the installation of FGD equipment 
in the UK and Portugal, the development of lower 
emission technology for brown coal generation in 
Australia, incorporation of high efficiency turbines 
in our new-build projects in the Middle East, 
Portugal, and Belgium, and the further 
development of our European onshore wind 
portfolio. All these initiatives make very sound 
environmental and commercial sense.
The growth and development of our business 
would not be possible without a committed team  
of employees, and I am always impressed by the 
enthusiasm displayed by our teams around the 
world. I would like to thank all our employees  
for their contribution during 2008.
As outlined in the Chairman’s statement, it is  
likely that Group profitability in 2009 will be lower 
than in 2008. However our assets are well placed  
to capture value, from both market recovery  
and short-term pricing volatility. Our focus is on 
maintaining a strong balance sheet with good free 
cash flow and liquidity, together with achieving the 
highest operational standards across our portfolio. 
Growth remains on our agenda, but we will 
continue to use our capital very selectively and 
carefully in light of the constrained capital 
markets. Our regional spread and market 
knowledge are key advantages, and enable us  
to allocate capital where we see the best returns.
Philip Cox
Chief Executive Officer
Business overview 5
