 8 Interserve Plc  Annual Report 2003
Chairman’s statement
Our 2003 results were broadly in
line with expectations and reflect a
satisfactory performance in our core
activities, achieved in conjunction
with the implementation of planned
management changes and the
withdrawal from non-core businesses.
Headline profit from continuing
operations* amounted to £30.7
million (2002: £47.9 million) which
was, in particular, impacted by
increased pension charges of £8.9
million (2002: £nil) and a provision
of £5.5 million in respect of the
Liverpool City Council contract for
the repair and maintenance of
council houses. 
Following a review of the activities
of the Group the decision was taken
to withdraw from businesses that
were unlikely to produce acceptable
future returns, thus facilitating the
concentration of resources and effort
on our core activities going forward.
Exceptional charges for the closure
of non-core, underperforming
businesses amounted to £24.9 million.
The restructuring has proceeded
largely to plan and is substantially
complete.
After exceptional items and
goodwill amortisation the Group
made a pre-tax loss of £2.9 million
(2002: £37.2 million profit).
As announced in February of this
year we transferred our contract
with Liverpool City Council to a third
party. This action was necessary 
due to reductions in the amount of
work available making the contract
unviable on a stand-alone basis.
Turnover from continuing
operations rose by 13 per cent to
£1.17 billion (2002: £1.03 billion) 
resulting from the refocusing that
has taken place over the last few
years and reflecting generally
improving market conditions. 
The public and privatised sectors
continued to provide the majority
of our workload and in the year
accounted for around two-thirds 
of the total turnover.
Improved working capital
management and cash received from
the disposal of assets in discontinued
businesses contributed to a reduced
net debt at the year end amounting
to £22.5 million (2002: £42.8 million).
Net interest payable of £3.2 million
was covered over 10 times by total
operating profit before exceptional
items and goodwill amortisation of
£32.1 million. 
Dividend
The Directors are recommending a
final dividend of 9.3p (2002: 9.0p)
bringing the total dividend for the
year to 13.5p (2002: 13.0p), an
increase of 3.8 per cent. Subject to
the approval of the shareholders at
the Annual General Meeting the final
dividend will be paid on 9 June 2004
to shareholders on the register at the
close of business on 19 March 2004.
People
I am delighted once again to thank
each and every one of our people
for their hard work, dedication 
and enthusiasm. They also deserve
particular thanks for their much-
valued support in a year in which
we have implemented significant
change in order to strengthen our
prospects for sustained growth. 
The necessary closures resulted in the
loss of approximately 500 jobs; I am
grateful for the professionalism shown
by those affected and wish them
every success in their future careers. Interserve Plc  Annual Report 2003  9
The many talented people within
the Group possess a wealth of
professional and practical skills. 
The Interserve Training Trust, under
the guidance of John Jutson, has
done much to enhance this by
encouraging self-improvement
through training and qualifications.
I would like, on behalf of the Board,
to thank John, who retires from 
his position with Industrial Services
this year, for his sterling work 
in this regard.
Board
There have been a number of
planned changes to the Board
during the course of the year, 
most of which were reported at 
the Interim stage. They included 
the appointment of Adrian Ringrose
as Chief Executive on 1 July and 
Tim Jones as Group Finance Director
on 11 August. Since then Stuart Lee
and Clive Groom have retired from
the Board on 30 September and 
31 December respectively.
Stuart joined the Group in 1989 and
until 11 August was Group Financial
Director. I would like, on behalf of
the Board, to thank him for his
most valuable contribution to the
progress of the Group during his
tenure of office. 
Clive Groom was formerly 
Chief Executive of Building &
Property, a facilities services
business, which we acquired in 
2000 and at which time he joined
the Board. Again, on behalf of the
Board, I would like to thank him 
for his help and support in the
successful integration of Building &
Property into the Group and its
subsequent development as part of
our Facilities Services division. 
Strategy and outlook
In 2003 much has been done to
strengthen the Group’s platform for
future growth. Under our new Chief
Executive and Finance Director, a
review of the Group’s activities has
led to the closure of some small
businesses and withdrawal from
contracts that were not able to
offer the potential for appropriate
returns. The anticipated improvement
in the quality of the Group’s earnings,
combined with management’s
determination to drive growth in
our continuing businesses, bodes
well for the future. 
During 2003, the Group saw an
increase in the pace at which
contracts are being won across 
the business. The Group’s future
workload, now at a record level of
£4.3 billion, underpins our growth
potential and it is encouraging 
to see that our established track
record of achieving client retention
rates in excess of 90 per cent for
term contracts is continuing.
The markets in which the Group
undertakes its core activities
continue to be attractive, with an
encouraging flow of opportunities
for the short and long term in both
the public and private sectors.
Interserve is well placed to capitalise
on the considerable potential
available across the Group’s
continuing businesses.
Mike Bottjer
Chairman
9 March 2004
* Headline profit from continuing operations
comprises loss on ordinary activities before taxation
of £2.9m (2002: profit of £37.2m) adjusted for the
impact of exceptional items of £22.2m (2002: £0.3m
credit), goodwill amortisation of £9.6m (2002: £9.7m)
and the operating loss from discontinued operations
of £1.8m (2002: £1.3m).
Exceptional items comprise loss on sale or
termination of operations of £24.9m (2002: £1.2m),
profit on sale of tangible fixed assets of £2.7m (2002:
£2.5m) and exceptional operating charges of £nil
(2002: £1.0m).
Left to right
University College London Hospitals NHS Trust Services provided by
Interservefm include domestic cleaning, which incorporates the Trust’s
Infection Control Policy
Alder High School Hattersley Completed in 2003 this 750-student
secondary school is part of the Hattersley PFI schools project, together
with 2 primary schools
Dudley Group of Hospitals NHS Trust A range of non-clinical support
services is being undertaken, with bed numbers doubling
