 14 Interserve AnnuAl report 2011    BusIness revIew    chIef executIve’s Q&A
c hief executive Adrian r ingrose discusses some of the topics 
most frequently raised by shareholders. 
Adrian Ringrose Chief Executive
Q. How has Interserve performed  
in 2011?
A. I think we can feel proud of what 
Interserve has achieved for shareholders 
in 2011.
We continued to make excellent progress 
in increasing the margins in Support 
Services and are on track to reach our 
target for the division of 5 per cent by the 
end of 2013. Construction has done well 
both in the UK and internationally in a 
tough market where margin pressure and 
increased competition have had an effect. 
Equipment Services is emerging from 
the bottom of the cycle in good shape, 
maintaining healthy margins and a good 
return on capital employed.
We’ve also had a successful year for new 
business – we won more work than we 
consumed in revenue, with the result that 
our future workload rose from £5.3 billion 
to £5.6 billion.
Where we’ve needed to, we have 
reduced costs. But we have also 
continued investing for future 
development where we can see new 
opportunities – for instance in the justice 
sector, in welfare and in local government. 
It has been pleasing to see our 
performance reflected in a 39 per cent 
increase in our share price at a time when 
the FTSE 250 index fell by 13 per cent.
2011 2010
Gross revenue
*
£2,320m £2,315m +0.2%
headline pre-tax profit
*
£72.8m £69.6m +4.6%
profit before tax £67.1m £64.1m +4.7%
headline earnings per share 49.3p 42.8p +15.2%
net debt £44.2m £53.8m -17.8%
f ull-year dividend 19.0p 18.0p +5.6% busInEss REvIEw
 
ovER vIEw govERnAnCE fInAnCIAl st AtEmEnts
Interserve AnnuAl report 2011    BusIness revIew    chIef executIve’s Q&A 15
c hief executive’s
Q&A 
Q. How do you see the u K 
construction market developing?
A. We expect to see a further decline 
in the short term before an upturn in 
volume, probably from 2014. Our ability 
to maintain a fundamentally healthy 
business through this period is due in 
large part to our focus on sectors and 
clients with long-term construction needs 
and to the strong reputation we have built 
for quality and value for money.
Q. w here do you see the 
opportunities in the middle East?
A. Qatar is our largest overseas market, 
where we focus on civil engineering, 
building and engineering services. 
We’ve been there since 1996 and have 
a workforce of over 10,000 people. 
Qatar offers strong growth prospects: its 
investment in natural gas gives it a very 
secure financial base and the resources 
to back development for many years 
to come. In addition, hosting the World 
Cup in 2022 provides a renewed focus 
on infrastructure, generating new road, 
rail and port schemes and investment in 
power, water and drainage. Interserve is 
a key provider in many of these areas and 
we anticipate that we’ll see the impact 
of these requirements from 2013 and 
onward.
In Saudi Arabia our start-up Equipment 
Services business has had a good 
first couple of years and this provides a 
strong platform from which to explore 
further opportunities. The Kingdom is 
the largest projects market across the 
Gulf Co-operation Council, accounting for 
45 per cent of the total, and has ambitious 
construction and infrastructure plans.
Q. t here has been talk of the u K 
government’s need to outsource 
more in order to cut costs without 
having too great an impact on front-
line services. Are you seeing this 
translate into reality?
A. The pace of change is variable. We are 
seeing exciting developments in welfare 
and justice; health could be another 
growth opportunity, while the picture in 
local government is more fragmented. 
Overall, we continue to see UK public 
services as a good area for growth.
As part of our strategy we have identified 
several areas where we can apply our 
management capabilities in new sectors 
to generate additional business. In 2011 
we won two regions in the Department 
for Work and Pensions’ (DWP’s) Work 
Programme, and in January 2012 we 
were selected by the Ministry of Justice 
(MoJ) in its new framework for the 
provision of custodial services. The 
MoJ has indicated that it has broader 
outsourcing plans, and our involvement 
has the potential to lead to activity in 
further areas such as the delivery of 
probation services. We are seeing further 
opportunities emerge as the health, 
local government and defence markets 
develop.
Q. Has the business reached the  
end of cost cutting?
A. We always have to look for ways to 
improve efficiency and deliver better 
value to our customers – that’s part of 
why they choose us to work with them. 
In addition we did, correctly as it turns 
out, anticipate the pressures on some 
of our businesses from the recession 
and take the necessary action to reduce 
our fixed costs in good time. However, 
that has not stopped us investing in 
new opportunities. Our markets offer 
the potential for sustained medium-
term growth at attractive margins and 
it is important that, while making any 
necessary cost savings, we hold our 
shape to enable us to capitalise on  
these opportunities as they emerge. 
 
Q. You said last year that you 
believed Interserve had the 
capability to double earnings per 
share over a five-year period.  
Does that still stand?
A. Yes. We have come through the  
last two years well, our existing  
markets have good potential, we are 
exploiting new markets and we have  
a strong balance sheet to support  
our growth. Our medium-term  
prospects remain strong.
“o ur markets offer the potential for sustained 
medium-term growth at attractive margins.”
* See notes 10 and 31 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 85 and 106 respectively for a reconciliation of non-statutory measures to their statutory equivalents .
