 02 Interserve AnnuAl report  2011    overvIew     ChAIrmAn’s st Atement
In recent years the Group has begun a 
significant transformation in the scope 
of our business, applying our core 
skills in new markets where we believe 
we can both grow and deliver high 
value.
In the UK our Support Services 
business, as well as taking steps to 
improve customer value, efficiency and 
margins in our existing markets, has 
invested in extending our management 
skills into new areas of outsourcing 
activity. During this last year, for 
example, we started up our innovative 
partnership serving the Department 
for Work and Pensions in its Work 
Programme, and are now shortlisted  
 
in bidding to support the Ministry of 
Justice in its framework programme for 
management of offenders.
Overseas we have invested in 
developing the scope of business 
activities in our existing high growth 
markets as well as extending into major 
new territories – such as Saudi Arabia, 
India and the USA.
We believe the ongoing opportunities 
for continuing this transformation of 
our business - both in the UK and 
overseas - provide significant upside 
potential in the medium and long term, 
notwithstanding the ongoing economic 
uncertainties. This is the primary 
engine for achieving our growth 
ambitions.
Managing long-term client 
relationships is a major strength 
and one of the key ingredients in the 
excellent forward visibility of our future 
workload. The actions we have been 
taking in Support Services should 
continue to improve margins. There 
are also indications that the recovery 
in Equipment Services’ international 
markets, begun in the second half of 
2011, will now be maintained. Together 
we anticipate these developments 
can more than offset the short-term 
impact on Construction’s performance 
resulting from the current margin and 
volume pressures.
“ I am pleased to report a year of significant 
achievement and progress for Interserve. 
 In continued difficult markets we have  
delivered growing earnings, strong cash flows 
and an improved order book. At the same 
time we have undertaken significant new 
developments towards our strategic objectives 
to grow shareholder value.”
 Lord Blackwell Chairman Business review
 
overview governanCe finanCiaL statements
Interserve AnnuAl report  2011    overvIew     ChAIrmAn’s st Atement 03
Chairman’s statement
Doing the important things well 
This year I am reporting separately on 
the role and effectiveness of the Board 
in our Corporate Governance review. 
However, on behalf of the Board I 
would like to thank all of our people 
for their continued commitment and 
for their willingness to go the extra 
mile in delivering outstanding service 
to our customers. The success of 
our business is founded on having 
the right people and supporting 
them in their development. One of 
our key programmes identifies and 
develops the people who will form 
the core of our senior leadership 
in the years to come. We offer all 
our people a wealth of training and 
development opportunities including 
apprenticeships and a ‘Skills for Life’ 
numeracy and literacy programme. We 
also run return-to-work schemes for 
the long-term unemployed. 
Reflecting our confidence in the 
medium-term prospects and in our 
strategy for developing the Group, 
we are recommending an increased 
final dividend of 13.0p (2010: 12.4p), 
bringing the total dividend for the year 
to 19.0p (2010: 18.0p), an increase of 
5.6 per cent. The final dividend will be 
paid on 24 May 2012 to shareholders 
on the register at the close of business 
on 10 April 2012.
Lord Blackwell Chairman 
29 February 2012
