 1
 How Has Int er ser ve   
 per f or med In 2012? 
 
2012 has been a very good year for 
Interserve in the face of mixed market 
conditions. I am pleased with the 
continued progress we have made against 
our stated strategic objectives. We have 
grown revenue and profits and continue 
to build a strong future workload.
In the UK, we have made good  
progress in spite of the economic 
environment, notably in our Support 
Services division, where we have grown 
revenue and remain on track to meet 
our margin target of five per cent by 
the end of 2013. Overseas we continue 
to build our support services business  
and we will look to continue this  
trend in 2013.
The UK construction industry has 
faced challenges over the year, but 
our business here has shown good 
resilience and we continue to win work, 
growing future workload to £6.3 billion. 
Internationally, our construction business 
has shown a mixed performance, 
experiencing varying demand in 
different countries. Latterly we have 
started to see positive signs of recovery 
in the UAE, as well as signs of emerging 
infrastructure development in Oman  
and Qatar. 
Revenue and margins continue  
to improve in our Equipment  
Services business, which we have 
achieved through intelligent 
management of our global fleet,  
a timely pricing review and  
accessing new, attractive markets.
10 Int er serve annual r eport 2012    BusIness r evIew    CHIef exeCut Ive’s stat ement (Q&a)
CHIef exeCut Ive’s  
stat ement (Q&a)
adr Ian r Ing r ose CHIef exeCut Ive Strategically, we have made good 
progress in growing our business  
as planned, realising the latent  
value in our PFI portfolio to reinvest  
in future growth. During the year  
we increased our capacity for the 
delivery of services direct to the 
citizen, firstly in welfare with our 
acquisition of BEST (now Interserve  
Working Futures) and in the health 
sector with Advantage Healthcare. 
2
 How ar e you per f or mIng   
 ag aInst Company st r at eg y? 
 
Our strategy is to build strong core 
businesses, expand internationally 
and expand the scope of our core 
businesses.  We have made good 
progress against all three aspects  
of this in 2012 and expect to see 
further progress in 2013. 
We are ambitious and optimistic  
about our medium-term growth 
potential. By crystallising value 
in our PFI assets we have further 
strengthened our balance sheet  
and are well placed to exploit 
opportunities for growth in line  
with our strategy. In 2012 we have 
done this both by building our 
capability in the justice market,  
and also through the acquisition  
of BEST and Advantage Healthcare, 
expanding our frontline service 
capability and exploiting  
adjacent markets.
Our UK construction business  
has not only focused on long-term 
commercial structures such as 
framework agreements, but also 
continues to innovate with  
technologies such as PassivHaus  
and our own proprietary construction 
system - Podsolve. The UK business  
has also expanded the scope of  
its operations in attractive growth 
areas such as the energy from  
waste sector. Overseas we have 
developed our specialist joinery  
and interior fit-out operations in  
Qatar and UAE and remain well  
placed for infrastructure development  
in the region. 
Support Services in the UK has 
delivered strong revenue growth  
of 11 per cent based on the ongoing 
need for government and businesses 
to increase efficiencies and maximise 
effectiveness in difficult economic 
conditions. 
Overseas we continue to expand  
our capability, notably in our  
provision of services to the oil and  
gas industry, both through work-
winning, but also with the acquisition 
of TOCO at the turn of the year.
Equipment Services is our most  
global business and continues 
to expand its geographic reach, 
establishing new branch locations 
in India, Chile, Panama and latterly 
Kazakhstan. In addition we are  
also exporting to less developed 
markets in Central Africa, Iraq  
and the Caspian region, moving our 
equipment fleet to follow demand  
and capture new opportunities.
 
 
 
3
 wHat ar e your pl ans  
 f or 2013? 
 
We will continue to build our core 
businesses, access adjacent markets 
and develop new opportunities for 
growth. At the start of the year,  
we acquired TOCO, which will  
enhance our existing capabilities in  
the provision of services to the oil  
and gas sector. The strength of our  
balance sheet leaves us well-placed  
to exploit further growth opportunities 
both in the UK and overseas. 
In December, the UK government 
announced PF2 and reasserted its 
commitment to infrastructure building 
projects, notably through a schools 
building programme. Both of these 
developments are positive signs for 
Interserve and play to our strengths 
of experience and innovation. We 
expect to see further outsourcing 
opportunities from both the private and 
public sector, through a combination 
of macroeconomic pressures and 
increasing demand for public services 
from a growing and ageing population.  
Developing and delivering our frontline 
capability will be a focus in areas 
such as health, welfare and justice, 
building on our 2012 activities. The 
justice market remains an important 
opportunity for Interserve, with the 
UK government’s announcement of a 
‘rehabilitation revolution’ in 
December 2012 and a clear 
commitment to outsourcing services.
We look forward with confidence to 
making further progress against our 
strategy in 2013 and beyond.
Int er serve annual r eport 2012    BusIness r evIew    CHIef exeCut Ive’s stat ement (Q&a) 11
 
overvIew
 
g over nanCe
 
BusIness r evIew
 
f InanCIal stat ement s
 
overvIew Chang ing l ives t hr oug h 
sustainabl e j obs
Wel far e t o Wor k
Interserve is working with its partners to  
make a difference to people’s lives, by helping 
them to find long-term employment.
The Work Programme is the UK Government’s 
largest and most ambitious Government  
back-to-work initiative ever commissioned  
and caters for the long-term unemployed,  
or those with substantial difficulties in  
finding work. 
The programme brings together many of  
the best features of previous initiatives and 
combines them with some new approaches,  
all of which are designed to move more people into 
sustained employment.  
We are proud to be involved in the delivery  
of this flagship programme, delivered across  
West Yorkshire through interserve Working  
f utures and in the South West and Wales  
through a joint venture with the Rehab Group 
called Rehab Jobfi t.
Our partnership with Work Programme providers 
blends their existing expertise in providing training, 
employment, health and social care  
and commercial services with our track record  
of large-scale service delivery to Government  
and management of supply chains.
ing enuit y at Wor k
12 int er serve annual r eport 2012    business r evieW    st r at eg iC overvieW
