 06 Intertek Group plc Annual Report
2006 was a year of increased public scrutiny of 
how our behaviour affects the global environment. 
And this will continue. Companies across the world 
are looking internally and at their products to 
consider what they should do to be more 
environmentally friendly. Our customers are 
increasingly seeking help from us to improve the 
environmental impact of their products and 
processes.
In the USA for example, we support QualComm by 
ensuring that their digital wireless products do not 
contain environmentally hazardous substances and 
thereby comply with new European legislation. In 
the UK, the development of new biofuel products 
requires complex testing processes and research 
and we have undertaken ground-breaking work in 
this area with Biofuels Corporation. And, in India, 
we work with Carrier India to test the energy 
efﬁ ciency of their products and support their 
efforts in providing superior products to their 
customers and meeting the proposed India Energy 
Label requirements. 
With countries like India enjoying tremendous 
growth in consumerism, our work and skills in 
tackling and ensuring the environmental efﬁ ciency 
of consumer products thus becomes critical. Social 
and regulatory trends for more environmentally 
friendly products continue to grow at a great pace 
in every country and Intertek is well positioned to 
help and beneﬁ t from this trend. 
The increasing afﬂ uence in emerging markets is 
opening up new opportunities and challenges for 
the world’s manufacturers, retailers and brands. 
Intertek is experienced in helping customers 
bring new products to new markets under tight 
budgetary and time constraints. We will beneﬁ t 
from the forthcoming consumer explosion in 
emerging markets where we already have an 
extensive presence. As we work alongside our 
customers and help them manage their 
international expansion, we bring them the 
advantages and security of partnering with 
a world class global corporation.
The market for safety and quality services is 
growing strongly. Consumers, manufacturers and 
retailers have higher quality and safety expectations 
as there are increasing numbers of products in 
the market of growing complexity and due to 
competition among retailers and manufacturers. 
Environmental concerns from consumers and 
regulatory bodies are increasing the need for new 
and revised safety and environmental standards.
Our customers are under pressure to expand their 
product lines, increase speed to market, but also to 
mitigate supply chain risk. They must manage 
changing patterns in global trade, sourcing and 
distribution and consider the effects of new and 
emerging markets. Our goal is to be a source of 
vital support to clients through changing times. 
With our global network and local and international 
management, we are well-placed to remain their 
trusted partner.
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s review
Inside Intertek
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer 07 Intertek Group plc Annual Report
All of these trends create a more complex world 
for our clients to operate in and an increasing 
challenge for manufacturers, retailers and brands 
alike. Intertek is there to support them through the 
changing regulatory compliance, consumer attitude 
and global supply chain issues. We can do this in 
many different conﬁ gurations and client 
relationships. 
We are seeing many customers beneﬁ ting from 
outsourcing to Intertek whole processes, divisions, 
standalone laboratories or just the more complex 
areas of safety and quality assurance. Through 
economies of scale and a worldwide resource of 
talented people, the beneﬁ ts that can accrue from 
this process to both parties can be sizeable. 
Ultimately, it is our people here at Intertek that are 
the strength of our brand and allow us to add value 
to our clients. 
I frequently meet Intertek scientists and engineers 
who say that their achievement of ﬁ nding 
innovative solutions for clients’ complex challenges 
is a great source of satisfaction to them. I have seen 
Intertek leaders offer Government ministers novel 
solutions to their international trade security and 
customs challenges and develop them into a long-
term relationship of fundamental beneﬁ t to the 
well-being and economy of that state. 
People at Intertek carry a high level of dedication, 
expertise and a desire to see our customers 
succeed. Through this, we can be sure that we will 
continue to create value for our customers, demand 
for our services in expanding markets, and increase 
our shareholders’ wealth.
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer
“ The foundation of our success 
lies in our approach of adding 
value to our clients.”
 Our Strategy
Focus on clients by adding 
value to their businesses 
and products
Combine and increase the 
number of services to the 
beneﬁ t of our clients
Organise ourselves along 
industry and service lines
To be the ﬁ rst or second 
in each of our core service 
industries
To drive the outsourcing 
trend in all our core service 
industries
