 04 Intertek Group plc Annual Report
“ Strong customer focus produces 
good results. ”
Introduction by the Chairman
Vanni Treves
Chairman
Results
I am pleased to present the ﬁ fth Annual Report of the 
Intertek Group since its debut on the London Stock 
Exchange in May 2002. The Group has enjoyed a 
successful year and has continued to grow its 
operations both organically and through acquiring 
complementary businesses. Revenue for the Group 
grew by 14.5% to £664.5m in 2006 compared to 
2005. Our three largest divisions, representing 92.0% 
of the Group’s revenue, grew by 20.9% in total and 
Government Services, our smallest division, declined 
as expected, due to the discontinuation of pre-
shipment inspection programmes in Nigeria and 
Venezuela. 
Group operating proﬁ t was £98.1m, up 18.2% over 
2005. Operating proﬁ t, stated before the amortisation 
of business combination intangibles and the 
impairment of goodwill (‘adjusted operating proﬁ t’) 
was £102.2m, up 17.3% over 2005. Excluding 
Government Services, adjusted operating proﬁ t 
increased by 35.0%.
These results include the contribution of acquisitions 
made in 2005 and 2006. Excluding these acquisitions 
the organic growth in revenue was 13.3% for the 
three largest divisions and 7.9% for the Group. 
Organic growth in adjusted operating proﬁ t was 
27.3% for the three largest divisions and 10.7% 
for the Group.
Acquisitions 
In line with the Group’s strategy of extending 
its range of services and territories through 
complementary acquisitions, seven new businesses 
were acquired in 2006, for net consideration of 
£36.9m. The largest of these was Alta Analytical 
Laboratory Inc., which was acquired on 30 November 
2006 for £14.0m. Alta which is based in California, 
USA provides analytical services to North American 
pharmaceutical and clinical research organisations. 
This acquisition broadens the range of laboratory 
services offered to the pharmaceutical sector. Other 
acquisitions enhanced our ability to offer analytical 
chemical testing in Europe and strengthened our 
market position in strategically important countries 
such as Japan and Spain. 
On 9 January 2007 the Group acquired for £12.9m, 
UK based Umitek Ltd and its subsidiaries, CAPCIS and 
SREL which provide specialist testing and consultancy 
services to the oil and gas industries in the North Sea 
and globally. 
Dividends
An interim dividend of 4.6p per share (2005: 3.9p) 
was paid to shareholders on 14 November 2006. The 
Directors will propose a ﬁ nal dividend of 10.2p per 
share at the Annual General Meeting on 11 May 
2007, to be paid to shareholders on 15 June 2007. If 
approved, this will make a full year dividend of 14.8p 
per share (2005: 12.0p), an increase of 23.3%. The 
Group continues to follow a progressive dividend 
policy. In determining the future level of dividends we 
previously set dividend cover to be at least three times 
earnings. As a result of our strengthening balance 
sheet, in future we will set the dividend to be covered 
by at least two and a half times earnings.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share were 40.9p, up 11.1% over 
last year. Diluted adjusted earnings per share, before 
amortisation of business combination intangibles and 
impairment of goodwill, were 43.2p, up 10.5% from 
39.1p. Excluding the proﬁ t on sale of an associate 
made in 2005, the earnings per share growth 
increased from 10.5% to 13.4%. Details of the 
calculation of earnings per share is given in note 8 
to the ﬁ nancial statements.
Board changes
The Intertek Board of Directors was further 
strengthened during the year by the appointment of 
Christopher Knight and Debra Rade as Non-Executive 
Directors.  Christopher Knight is a Chartered 
Accountant and former investment banker with a 
wide range of experience in corporate ﬁ nance both in 
the UK and internationally. Debra Rade is currently a  05 Intertek Group plc Annual Report
partner in a major US law ﬁ rm. Her practice focuses 
on corporate governance and compliance as well as 
product safety and certiﬁ cation. Until 2002, Debra 
was a senior ofﬁ cer of Underwriters Laboratories Inc., 
a provider of product safety and certiﬁ cation. Their 
expertise and experience will contribute to the 
continued success of the Intertek Group.
After leading the Consumer Goods division for most 
of his 33 years with Intertek, Raymond Kong retired 
as Chief Executive of that division on 1 July 2006 and 
became a Non-Executive Director of Intertek Group 
plc. Raymond continues as President of Asia and 
China, using his knowledge and experience to 
advance the Group’s interests in that region. On 
behalf of everyone at Intertek, I would like to express 
our deep gratitude to Raymond for his outstanding 
contribution towards building the Consumer Goods 
division into the successful business that it is today. 
Paul Yao, formerly the Chief Operating Ofﬁ cer of 
the Consumer Goods division, was appointed Chief 
Executive of the division to replace Raymond. I wish 
both colleagues success in their new roles.
Biographies of each of the Board members are set 
out on pages 18 and 19. 
Employees
The growth reﬂ ected in this strong set of results has 
been delivered by the dedication and expertise of 
the Group’s employees in providing value to our 
customers.  At the end of 2006, the Group employed 
over 18,000 people in 109 countries, an increase of 
2,600 people over last year. One of our key challenges 
in the Group, is recruiting, training and developing 
our people to ensure that they deliver excellent 
services which add value to our customers. In order
to meet this challenge, we have strengthened the 
human resources function and have developed new 
metrics to identify and develop talent within the Group. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank everyone 
in the Group for their effort in making 2006 another 
good year and for their continued dedication towards 
giving our customers the best possible service.
Outlook 
The Group operates in a dynamic global marketplace 
where change is continual. Through its extensive 
global network and experienced people, the Group 
will continue to adapt and expand its services to 
anticipate and meet the changing needs of customers. 
The Group’s strong ﬁ nancial position and ability to 
generate cash will enable it to invest in new facilities 
and acquire new businesses. Looking forward, we see 
good opportunities to develop the business further, 
both organically and through selective acquisitions, 
and whilst the weak dollar will impact on our results, 
we remain conﬁ dent about the prospects for 2007.
Vanni Treves
Chairman
 Alta Analytical Laboratory Inc
In November 2006, Intertek acquired 
the pharmaceutical testing company Alta 
Analytical Laboratory Inc. Alta supports 
North American pharmaceutical and clinical 
research organisations by providing a variety 
of analytical services including the testing 
that is required in the development of 
new drugs. 
The business is based out of two sites 
in California with a pool of experts in 
immunochemistry and bioanalytical services 
and counts major global pharmaceutical 
and biotech companies among its clients.
Alta’s expertise and business gives Intertek 
a platform to build a global presence in the 
area of analytical services, extending the 
existing European offering. Alta will be able 
to utilise Intertek’s extensive global reach 
to expand their bioanalytical services to 
existing and new international customers 
and markets.
 Strength through acquisition
