 8 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Our strategy for success
Introduction
Our financial results speak for themselves –
we have enjoyed a very successful year, with
record revenue growth. This outstanding
performance was due to our clear and
effective growth strategy, favourable
conditions in some of our markets and the
dedication and expertise of our people. In
the paragraphs below, I describe how our
strategy works in practice.
Add value to our clients’ business 
and products
Our mission is to support our clients in their
global and local trade by adding value to
their products and processes. But what does
this really mean? As our clients buy, sell or
receive products around the world, we help
them to achieve the quality, safety, social and
environmental standards that they need for
trading these products successfully and
within critical time frames. Manufacturers,
retailers and traders operate in an
increasingly competitive global marketplace.
We act in partnership with them to help
them to succeed. By doing this we create
value for our shareholders.
Combine and increase services to meet
clients’ future needs
We constantly review the services that we
offer our clients and identify where their
future needs are developing. By being in
regular and close contact with them, we
listen, anticipate and then plan the key areas
in which to expand our services and
resources to best support their changing
needs. For example, we have long provided
clients with electromagnetic compatibility,
safety certification and performance testing
for mobile devices. By acquiring Product
Quality Partners and National Software
Technology Laboratories in the United
States, we now offer a full suite of hardware
testing, including advanced testing
applications and software compatibility
services which are becoming increasingly
sought after in many markets. This is exactly
the support that our clients now require
from us, as their products and the
environment in which they operate, evolve. 
We grew the breadth of our emissions
service offerings to engine, lubricant and
additive manufacturer and automotive
industries substantially, by acquiring 
Carnot Emission Services, a company based
in San Antonio, Texas, US. Carnot provides
emissions testing services to small engine
and industrial equipment manufacturers and
certifies engines to the latest recently
enacted Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) off-road regulations. These services
expand and complement the heavy diesel
on-highway and off-road emission services
we provide at our neighbouring Intertek
Automotive Research facility. 
Acquisitions bring new clients into the
Group who can benefit from our services on
a global scale and also allow us to provide
new services to our existing customers. 
By listening to and foreseeing our clients’
future needs we are growing our business.
Get closer to customers – organise
ourselves to their industry lines
In response to the growth opportunities in
new sectors and to increase the focus on
customers in their specific industries, we
have changed the organisational structure
from four divisions to seven: Consumer
Goods; Commercial & Electrical; Analytical
Services; Minerals; Oil, Chemical & Agri;
Industrial Services; and Government
Services. This will enable the leaders of each
division to focus on the needs of their
customers and pursue a growth strategy
more directly focused on the industries that
they serve and thereby continue to diversify
the revenue streams into different industries.
To support these seven divisions, our
‘Intertek as One’ initiative launched two
years ago, will ensure there is cross-
divisional integration and co-operation. 
It has led to more service offerings and
added value for our customers and at the
same time allowed us to pursue opportunities
for sharing of resources.
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Officer Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 9
Our Strategy
Add value
Combine and increase services
Customer focus
To be the service provider of choice 
in our industry sectors
Drive outsourcing
Our global brand of one Intertek, with
thirteen main industry groupings, ensures
our customers can rapidly identify themselves
with us and helps us to offer a full range of
services to each industry. The main industries
we reach are shown on page 2 and we
expect this to expand in the future through
greenfield and acquisition growth.
To be a leader in our core service
industries
Our strategy is to concentrate on industry
sectors which provide us with an
opportunity to service customers globally.
We have developed a list of industries that
meet our criteria. In many of these, we are
already a leading provider and maintain a
strong reputation. Where we are not, we
aim to gain sufficient market share to
become the first or second service provider. 
For example, the global demand for minerals
is accelerating due to rapid industrialisation
and increasing development in emerging
economies. This growth leads to increased
demand for testing services at the point of
extraction and inspection at the point of
shipment. We lacked market presence in
Australia, which is a key location for the
mining industry, so we acquired two
companies: Genalysis which provides testing
and analytical services to the mining industry
in Western and Southern Australia and
Africa; and Northern Territories
Environmental Laboratories which covers
Northern Australia. These companies have
given us a strong presence in the Australian
minerals sector and helped us to win a
significant seven-year contract with
Fortescue Metals Group (FMG) to provide
analytical testing of mine samples to a major
mining company. These two acquisitions
complement our existing minerals operations
in Asia and the Americas and give us the
market penetration to pursue other
opportunities in the minerals testing market.
Our strategy of growing Intertek in our core
industry sectors means that we can focus
our acquisition strategy, building a complete
portfolio of services which maximises the
value we can add to our customers.
Drive the outsourcing trend in our core
industries
We developed the laboratory outsourcing
strategy initially in the oil sector over eight
years ago, but have now extended our reach
to the chemical, pharmaceutical, personal care,
automotive and minerals industries. Major
outsourcing contracts won in 2007 include:
• ICI outsourced its Measurement Science
Group in the UK;
• Kodak outsourced the analytical services of
its Eastman Gelatine Corporation in the US;
• FMG outsourced its minerals sample
preparation to Intertek Robotics in Australia;
• Limburg Water Board outsourced its water
and environmental laboratory activities in
the Netherlands.
Our outstanding track record is attracting more
opportunity and has established Intertek as the
market leader in laboratory outsourcing in the
oil and chemical sectors.
Many companies still run their quality and
safety services in-house. These are often 
non-core activities within a large, complex
organisation. We take the time to understand
these companies’ quality requirements and
offer outsourced solutions to maximise value
to our customers, including the resources and
skills available from our global network of
1,000 laboratories and offices. We expect
more outsourcing of these services across a
variety of industries, especially if the business
environment for our customers becomes more
challenging, as there may be increased
pressure to optimise value from scarcer
resources, presenting a strong growth
opportunity for Intertek. 
Our business is underpinned by global trade
but more importantly depends on product
variety, increasing demands for quality and
safety and the growing volume of regulations
concerning the environment and quality and
safety issues. I am confident that our proven
strategy and the dedication of our people will
continue to drive strong demand for our
services, providing added value for our
customers and increased value creation for 
our shareholders.
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Officer
1 Hong Kong
2 Houston
1
2
