 Annual Report 2008 23
23
Mark Loughead
Chief Operating 
Officer
Chief Operating Officer’s Review
Intertek as One
The main purpose of our Intertek as One 
programme is to promote cross-divisional 
integration and co-operation to ensure that 
our customers have access to the complete range 
of Group services and to allow us to pursue 
opportunities for sharing of resources. 
In order to facilitate cross-divisional integration and 
co-operation, we have nominated country managers 
in 16 of the countries in which we operate, covering 
80% of the Group’s revenue for 2008. Their 
responsibility is to support and lead cross-divisional 
selling and implement back office support shared 
service initiatives. The intention is that by mid 
2009 this will increase to more than 20 countries, 
accounting for over 95% of the Group’s revenue.
Presenting a single face to our customers is essential 
to achieve market penetration and drive cross-
divisional sales. By working together and integrating 
our services we are able to provide a complete 
package of services seamlessly to our customers. 
We are developing customer management systems 
to allow our divisions to share customer profiles 
and contact details. This facilitates business 
development through co-ordinated marketing 
campaigns and allows us to provide a full range 
of services to our clients.  
 
One of the fundamental aims of the Intertek as One 
programme is to position Intertek to sustain high 
levels of growth without corresponding increases 
in overhead costs. During 2008, we undertook 
an in-depth review to consider how we might 
standardize and streamline our processes to improve 
efficiency and provide a platform for future growth. 
We decided to establish shared service centres in 
countries where we have a large presence, 
combining business support functions such as 
accounting, procurement, human resources and 
IT across the divisions, to better improve the quality 
and delivery of these functions to the business and 
best support our growth. 
In order to effect the desired changes without 
disrupting our business and service to clients we 
decided to concentrate initially on developing a 
shared service centre covering the USA and Canada. 
Our large presence in North America has the greatest 
potential for cost saving synergies. This project is 
currently underway and is expected to be completed 
during 2009. Once the North American shared 
service centre has been successfully established, 
the project blueprint will be used to develop shared 
service centres as appropriate elsewhere.
Communication is a vital part of the Intertek as One 
initiative. Regular global, regional and local meetings 
were held during the year to identify, support and 
prioritise initiatives relevant to each country. Regular 
progress reports are posted on the Group intranet 
so that all employees are aware of the success of 
various projects and can see the tangible benefits 
that are starting to accrue. 
In the current economic environment, it is even 
more important that we maximize our business 
opportunities whilst reducing our overheads and 
our Intertek as One programme will help us to 
achieve this. 
Mark Loughead
Chief Operating Officer
Intertek as One
integrated services, 
shared resources, 
improved 
communication.
28653_pp001-027.indd   23 6/3/09   00:17:23
