 06 www.intertek.com
06 06
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Our commitment
We deliver innovative solutions to our customers 
and guide them through the complex regulations 
and standards that apply to their products. We 
facilitate our customers’ success in the global 
marketplace and, most importantly, we provide our 
customers with confidence. Our knowledge of 
quality-enhancing and procurement procedures 
along their value chain, together with our insight of 
existing and forthcoming regulations worldwide, 
allow our clients to reduce their product 
development time cycle and ensure that their 
products are compliant. By leveraging our local 
service and global network, we enable our 
customers to reduce overhead costs and dedicate 
their primary energies to their core business 
activities. We offer comprehensive programmes and 
services which draw on our industry-specific 
knowledge and technical expertise.
Progress towards delivering our strategy
Our excellent results for 2008 demonstrate the 
effectiveness of our growth strategy. This strategy 
is achieved by focusing on six key aspects of our 
business: 
Customers; • 
Our people; • 
Business development; • 
Processes; • 
Financial management; • 
Risk management. • 
Customers
By organising ourselves along industry lines we 
have developed in-depth knowledge of our chosen 
industries. This enables us to understand our 
customers’ businesses, anticipate their current and 
future needs and deliver seamless customer service. 
We locate our offices and laboratories near our 
clients so we can maintain a close relationship and 
provide a local contact point through which they can 
access our global network of facilities and expertise. 
In the current economic climate, reducing non-
productive overheads is key for most businesses. Our 
services allow our clients to reduce their dependency 
on in-house testing, freeing up valuable resources to 
allocate to their core services by outsourcing this to 
Intertek. As a result, clients can speed up the 
time-to-market of their products and reduce costs.
Our people
Our strategy is to attract, retain and motivate 
talented people with the expertise and experience 
to provide our clients with a service that surpasses 
their expectations. Our focus on customer service 
development through training and the strength 
of our collective leadership, combined with a 
stimulating work environment, are the principal 
drivers which motivate our people to excel at their 
work on behalf of all clients. 
Our commitment to supporting and adding value 
to our customers by improving their products and 
processes and reducing their costs drives everything 
we do. 
Directors’ Report – Business Review
28653_pp001-027.indd   6 6/3/09   00:16:28 Annual Report 2008 07
07
We plan ahead to ensure we have the right profiles 
of talent flowing through to shape and lead the 
evolution of our markets and services. This also 
enhances retention, with opportunities for career 
progression across all countries and areas of 
specialism. 
We continue our distinctive strategy of developing 
and promoting people locally as they have the best 
understanding of the local market and customers, 
whilst continuing to give opportunities for the most 
talented to advance into international management. 
Through our many Intertek as One initiatives we 
emphasise the need to join together, maintaining 
our agility to move people quickly to where they are 
of greatest impact for the benefit of our customers 
and our business.
Business development
Our industry-focused approach also drives our 
business and corporate development strategy. Our 
aim is to be a leader in our core service industries 
and we actively seek businesses to acquire that 
complement or extend our service offering to 
customers in our chosen sectors. We integrate the 
expertise and services in acquired businesses with 
our existing services and offer these to our 
customers globally. In 2008 we acquired 14 
businesses in nine countries across a variety of 
industry sectors. For example, in 2008 we acquired 
Hi-Cad Technical Services Ltd which provides 
specialist 3D data capture and measurement 
services, primarily to customers in the UK and the 
USA in the oil and petroleum industries. We also 
acquired CML Biotech Ltd which specialises in the 
measurement and management of bacteria in the 
upstream oil and gas industries. Both acquisitions 
strategically extend the breadth of our service 
offering to our clients in the energy industries.
Our in-depth knowledge of the industries in which 
we operate enables us to understand future 
developments and design services to meet changing 
customer requirements. For example, in 2008 we 
expanded our photovoltaic capabilities to support 
growth in the alternative energy industry and we 
have extended our service offering for customers 
in the food industry.
Processes
Internally, we continuously review and streamline 
our core processes to improve customer service and 
control costs. Our processes and procedures are 
subject to regular audits from our customers and 
regulatory bodies to ensure that we meet required 
standards. We strive to achieve operational 
excellence in all our facilities. Each division measures 
a variety of operational performance indicators that 
are appropriate to their business, such as test 
turnaround times, number of certifications issued, 
utilisation statistics, order backlog and order 
conversion amongst others. Our global Intertek 
as One initiative ensures that different parts of our 
business communicate and co-operate with each 
other to ensure our customers receive a seamless 
service. We are also planning to combine our back 
office functions within countries to improve 
efficiency and reduce overhead costs. 
Financial management
We aim to manage our business responsibly to 
meet the needs of all our stakeholders. Our strategy 
is to generate profitable growth both organically 
and through acquisitions and to maintain a sound 
financial position. We aim to secure long-term, 
recurring revenue from new and existing clients. 
We have many key financial performance indicators 
such as top line revenue growth and operating 
margin growth which we measure on a monthly 
basis for each division and industry sector. Further 
details are provided in the Financial Review starting 
on page 24.
Our business focus 
Customers • 
Our people • 
Business development • 
Processes • 
Financial management • 
Risk management • 
28653_pp001-027.indd   7 6/3/09   00:16:34 08 www.intertek.com
08 08
Intertek is a cash generative business and our focus 
is on managing capital expenditure, working capital, 
tax and interest costs. Our strategy is to ensure that 
the cash we generate is used efficiently for 
acquisitions, organic investment and returning funds 
to our shareholders, adding to their value creation. 
We continually monitor our cash position and the 
location of our cash balances to ensure that 
sufficient cash can be remitted into the UK to fund 
our dividend payments to shareholders. During 
2008 we added £75.0m to our committed 
borrowing facilities and raised a further US$200.0m 
by way of two senior note issues to ensure that we 
have sufficient funds available to continue investing 
in our business and making acquisitions. At 
31 December 2008, the Group had undrawn 
committed borrowing facilities of £97.8m which 
mature in December 2011, and cash of £113.3m.
Risk management
An important part of our growth strategy is to 
clearly identify risks to the achievement of our 
ambitions and to successfully address them. We 
continuously improve our risk assessment matrix 
with a view to improving our risk assessment and 
reporting framework to ensure that our internal 
audit work continues to focus on the most 
appropriate areas. 
Our close relationship with our customers and the 
markets in which they operate mean that we are 
aware of the issues facing many industries and can 
take appropriate and timely action. We monitor 
underperforming businesses closely and where we 
see revenue growth is declining we take action to 
adjust our cost base to maintain our margin. 
The current turmoil in the financial markets and the 
prospects of a global recession have made it more 
difficult and expensive to obtain debt financing. 
We will closely monitor the level of capital in the 
business and adjust it as necessary to meet 
requirements. 
Creating value
We will face many challenges in the current 
economic environment but I am confident that the 
services we provide, our strategy and the dedication 
of our people will continue to drive demand for our 
services, add value for our customers and create 
value for our shareholders. 
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Officer
Our strategy 
Add value to clients • 
Offer bundled services • 
Drive outsourcing • 
Focus on selected industry sectors • 
Support global trade • 
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
28653_pp001-027.indd   8 6/3/09   00:16:42
