 04 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Our Divisions
At a Glance
Oil, Chemical & Agri Consumer Goods Commercial & Electrical
Serving a wide range of industries including 
chemical, pharmaceutical, oil and gas, and 
automotive and aerospace, we offer expert 
laboratory measurement and consultancy 
services. We have an established track record 
of success in laboratory outsourcing with many 
large, internationally recognised companies. 
Using in-depth knowledge of the oil, gas, 
petrochemical, power, renewable energy, 
civil and infrastructure, aerospace and medical 
ﬁ elds, we provide a range of services to help 
customers meet global quality standards. 
These include management systems 
certiﬁ cation, second-party auditing, supplier 
evaluation, technical veriﬁ cation, conformity 
assessment, asset integrity management, 
3D laser scanning and dimensional control 
management, training, health and safety 
consulting and greenhouse gas services. 
We offer analytical testing, inspection and 
mine-site laboratory services to the world’s 
minerals, exploration, ore and mining 
industries. We provide a wide range of 
analytical services for materials including 
precious metals, base metals and their raw 
content, such as iron ore, bauxite, coal and 
coke, as well as bulk commodities. 
25,000+ employees, 1,000+ labs and ofﬁ ces, 
100+ countries across the globe serving the 
world’s leading brands – our customers.
We provide independent cargo inspection, 
non-inspection related laboratory testing, 
calibration and related technical services to 
the world’s energy, petroleum, chemical 
and agricultural industries. We also provide 
cargo scanning, ﬁ scal support services and 
standards programmes to governments, 
national standards organisations and 
customs authorities.
We are a market leading provider of services 
to the textiles, toys, footwear, hardlines, food 
and retail industries. Services include testing, 
inspection, auditing, advisory services, quality 
assurance and hazardous substance testing. 
Customers are often retailers but also include 
manufacturers and suppliers within a global 
supply chain. 
Through our global network of accredited 
ofﬁ ces we provide manufacturers and 
retailers with the most comprehensive scope 
of safety, performance and quality testing 
and certiﬁ cation services. We support 
customers in a wide range of industries 
including home appliances, lighting, medical, 
building, industrial and HVAC/R (heating, 
ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration), 
IT, telecom, renewable energy and automotive.
Analytical Services Industrial Services Minerals Testing Outsourcing
Inspection Advisory
Certiﬁ cation Training
Auditing Quality Assurance
www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 05
Our Services
Our Industries
Our Customers
Aerospace & Automotive
Building Products
Chemicals
Consumer Goods & 
Retailers
Electrical & Electronic
Energy
Food & Agriculture
Industrial
IT & Telecom
Medical & Pharmaceutical
Minerals
Petroleum
Toys, Games & Hardlines
Textiles, Apparel & 
Footwear














Parts Association






























Corporation



























Mozambique


Saudi Arabia











