 06 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Chairman’s Statement
Dividends
An interim dividend of 8.2p per share (2008: 7.1p) was paid to 
shareholders on 20 November 2009. The Directors will propose  
a ﬁnal dividend of 17.3p per share at the Annual General Meeting 
on 14 May 2010, to be paid on 18 June 2010 to shareholders  
on the register at close of business on 4 June 2010. If approved,  
this will make a full year dividend of 25.5p per share (2008: 20.8p), 
an increase of 22.6%. 
Acquisitions
In 2009, we made three bolt-on acquisitions for total consideration 
of £30.8m (2008: £83.1m). Details of these acquisitions are given  
in the Operating Review by division and in note 24 to the ﬁnancial 
statements. Our strategy of growing key industry sectors through 
acquisitions is unchanged, although we deliberately scaled back our 
acquisitions in 2009 to concentrate on integrating the businesses  
we acquired in prior years. We will continue to invest in new 
opportunities as they arise. 
The Board 
On 14 January 2010, we announced that Bill Spencer has decided  
to retire from his position as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer. Bill has served 
Intertek extremely well for over 18 years and has played a valuable 
part in the development of the Group. After 24 years with the Group, 
Richard Nelson retired from the Intertek Board on 1 September 2009. 
Richard’s work over the past two decades, as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
and more recently as Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman, 
will have a lasting impact and has been integral in taking Intertek to 
the successful position that it holds today. On behalf of the Board,  
I would like to thank both Bill and Richard very much for the 
signiﬁcant contribution they have made to the Group. Our best 
wishes for the future to them both. 
On 1 September 2009, I was pleased to welcome Edward Astle and 
Gavin Darby to the Board as Non-Executive Directors. Edward Astle 
is Pro-Rector of Commercial Development at Imperial College London 
where he leads the development of major business opportunities in 
the UK and internationally. Edward’s management and commercial 
strategy experience at high level in the telecoms, industrial and 
science related ﬁelds will bring additional perspective to the Board. 
Results 
Intertek delivered strong results in 2009, notwithstanding very 
difﬁcult macro-economic conditions throughout the world and 
ended the year with a revenue ﬁgure of £1,237.3m, up 23.3% over 
last year. Excluding acquisitions revenue growth was 19.4%. 
 
Operating proﬁt was £186.7m, up 26.2% over last year. Adjusted 
operating proﬁt increased to £209.0m, up 26.9%. Our adjusted 
operating margin increased by 50 basis points to 16.9%. Excluding 
acquisitions, adjusted operating proﬁt grew by 24.4%. 
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share were 72.4p, up 21.7% over last year  
and diluted adjusted earnings per share were 81.5p, up 21.5%. 
Positioning for future growth
Vanni Treves
Chairman www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 07
Gavin Darby is Operations and Business Development Director of 
Vodafone Group Plc for the Asia Paciﬁc and Middle East Region. 
Gavin’s extensive background in overseeing the operational 
development of businesses across international markets will be  
a valuable complement to the Board. 
In April 2010, Lloyd Pitchford will join the Board as Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer. Lloyd has spent ten years with BG Group plc, one of the 
largest UK publicly listed companies holding the role of Group 
Financial Controller for the BG Group for the past ﬁve years. Lloyd’s 
extensive international and management experience with large, 
complex and growing organisations will assist Intertek to explore 
exciting opportunities across global markets. I am delighted to 
welcome Lloyd to the Board and am conﬁdent that he will 
contribute to Intertek’s continued success. 
Environmental impact
Intertek is committed to playing an important and positive role  
with respect to climate change and the environmental impact of 
products and processes. We advise our clients, as an integral part  
of our business, on many issues which have an impact on the 
environment, such as the chemical content of their products and 
packaging, the energy efﬁciency of their equipment, CO
2 emissions 
and the disposal of harmful substances and waste electrical 
products. We also provide advisory and consultancy services to help 
retailers and manufacturers design their products and services to 
comply with current and future environmental regulations around 
the world. Through our services we help our clients to minimise the 
environmental impact of their products and processes for the 
beneﬁt of society as a whole. We are also mindful of our own 
impact on the environment and are working on various initiatives  
to reduce this. 
Quality and integrity
Quality and integrity are in essence what our customers are buying 
and they therefore lie at the heart of Intertek’s culture and processes. 
We have embedded our values across the organisation and are 
continually reviewing and reinforcing our internal processes to  
ensure compliance. The Intertek Compliance Code and Code of 
Ethics provide practical guidance and instruction for employees  
and there are email and telephone hotlines so that staff may report 
anonymously, any inaccurate or unethical working practices. Our 
strong focus on compliance provides assurance to our customers  
that our reports and certiﬁcates are valid and accurate.
Employees 
Our mission to support and add value for our customers is delivered 
through over 25,000 people across Intertek worldwide. It’s been  
a tough year for many of our customers and the dedication of our 
employees to customer service and going the extra mile has helped 
us to retain business in the face of increased competition. We 
constantly strive to improve our capacity to attract, develop and 
retain the best people who share in the mission, values and success 
of the Group. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to welcome all new employees 
to Intertek and to thank all our employees around the world for 
their commitment to making 2009 another successful year.
Summary 
Intertek has performed strongly in difﬁcult circumstances and 
generated cash. Our key growth drivers remain intact and the 
Board’s conﬁdence in the future is reﬂected by the dividend 
increase of 22.6%. 
