 08 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review
Introduction
As expected, 2009 was a challenging year with tougher global 
market conditions, recession in many countries and severe 
contraction in some industries. Despite these difﬁculties,  
the key business drivers to Intertek’s global business remained  
intact and combined with our customer focused strategy enabled  
us to achieve strong results for the year. 
Our strategy
Our mission is to add value to our customers’ processes, products 
and brands through providing quality and safety services. 
We concentrate on industry sectors in which we have the critical 
size to provide our customers with global world-class services which 
are based on a deep understanding of their current and evolving 
future needs and challenges.
Our divisions are organised to focus on speciﬁc sectors and they 
continuously improve their capabilities and procedures to deliver 
customer centric services. Our excellent staff, market leading 
response times and high value solutions differentiate us in the 
marketplace. 
Our network of laboratories and ofﬁces are located where our 
customers need them and our highly motivated people are chosen 
for their understanding of local culture as well as their industry 
expertise. We understand that our people are our core assets  
and invest continuously in them. Our close relationship with our 
customers and our reputation for quality has allowed us to develop 
partnerships with many globally-renowned companies where we 
take over and operate our customers’ in-house testing facilities or 
quality processes along their supply chain. Companies can outsource 
their laboratory activities to Intertek and be conﬁdent that the 
service they receive will be both high quality and more cost effective. 
Our strategy is to be the premier high value service provider in our 
industry sectors and we will continue to build a full service portfolio 
to offer our customers one-stop shopping solutions and give us the 
opportunity to leverage excellent customer relationships across a 
broad portfolio. Besides focusing on delivering strong organic 
growth rates we will continue our well deﬁned acquisition strategy 
to strengthen our position in evolving market segments and the 
important regional markets of the future. We will do this with small 
to medium sized bolt-on acquisitions but we are also well prepared 
to be an active consolidator in the industry.
Our commitment to 
supporting and adding 
value to our customers  
by improving their 
products and processes 
and reducing their costs 
drives everything we do.
Our strategy in action
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 09
In 2010, we will further strengthen our Intertek brand as the name 
on which leading global players rely if they want to be conﬁdent 
that their products and procedures match the highest quality, safety  
and environmental standards. 
 Action: adding value to the energy sector
We have worked closely with some of the major oil companies to 
develop better ways to analyse crude oils from offshore production 
ﬁelds. We have developed a groundbreaking approach that uses 
near infra-red to conduct pipeline crude oil analysis in combination 
with predictive software. This solution has enabled our customers  
to cut costs, increase revenues and deliver greater proﬁtability.
 Action: using global and local knowledge
We helped one of our well-known retailer clients improve their 
quality control procedures in various countries. Our solution 
balanced global and local concerns. Multi-disciplinary quality 
assurance teams worked closely with the client in each location  
to analyse the supply chain and strengthen local quality control 
procedures at source. Our innovative database technology provided 
transparency and allowed rapid analysis and correction of problems 
in supply before they hit the shelves – reducing costs for our client 
and protecting their worldwide reputation and brand. 
 Action: helping our customers grow
We have helped our customers in China compete on the global 
stage. We contributed expertise in multiple areas for one of the 
world’s largest manufacturer of white goods. By assisting with 
design and R&D and providing training to improve internal capability 
we helped our client make and market better products at a much 
faster rate. This improved their competitive advantage, enabling 
them to further their international growth. 
 Action: expanding our service offering
Through our knowledge of the energy and industrial markets, we 
identiﬁed that our customers worldwide needed global technical 
inspection and expediting support to bring them new expertise, 
project efﬁciencies and cost saving. In February 2009, we acquired 
the WISco group of companies to add these service capabilities  
to our Industrial Services division. We are now able to offer these 
services globally to our customers.
 Action: understanding the regulations
We used our knowledge and understanding of international 
regulations and standards to help the world’s largest manufacturer  
of rehabilitation equipment to navigate the labyrinth of medical 
regulatory standards that apply to their products. When a new 
edition of the IEC 60601 international series of standards for 
electronic medical devices was released, we were able to determine 
which edition would be most suitable for the client’s design, 
certiﬁcation and market entry needs, thus supporting their 
reputation for engineering excellence.
 Action: being close to our clients
One of our clients in the mining industry wanted to be able to 
analyse iron as soon as it was extracted. We set up a laboratory  
at their mine site which uses robotic technology and automated 
systems to provide faster, more accurate analysis which is also 
cleaner and safer. Our results allow our client to make more 
informed decisions and improve resource utilisation. 
 Action: focusing on global trade
A customer in the aerospace industry had been working with 
multiple companies to certify their facilities across the world.  
They recognised the inefﬁciency of this approach and asked Intertek 
to provide this service globally. As one of the best known certiﬁers 
in the aerospace industry and one of the ﬁrst companies to provide 
AS9100 certiﬁcation (the internationally recognised quality 
management standard speciﬁcally written for the aerospace 
industry), we were a natural choice. 
Result: sustainable growth
Despite tougher global market conditions, the  
key business drivers to Intertek’s global business 
remain intact, namely product variety, supply  
chain complexity, the outsourcing of in-house 
testing laboratories and increasing demand for  
safe, environmentally friendly and quality products 
driven by ongoing regulation and end customers. 
Supporting our customers as they strive to be  
more competitive and cost effective underpins  
this growth. We expect this strategy and  
customer focus to generate continued and 
sustainable growth. 10 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s Review
The Intertek growth drivers
Our success lies in our strategy. Our consistent and committed focus on our 
customers is the cornerstone of our success and enables us to take advantage 
of the ﬁ ve key growth drivers in our business which are shown below.
1
2
3
4
5
GLOBAL TRADE:
MARKET DRIVERS:
EXPANSION:
DRIVING THE 
INDUSTRY:
EXTERNAL GROWTH:
Impacting volume related businesses
Increasing demand for quality and safety, 
concern for the environment and product variety
More services, regions and industries
Customers outsourcing to make 
ﬁ xed costs variable
Strong track record of acquiring 
complementary businesses
Directors’ Report – Business Review www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 11
Go online for more information
 www . intertek. com/in vest ors/presentations
The drivers 
of our growth
remain robust
Only about 30% of our business relies on the 
volume of global trade, so although growth in 
global trade has slowed down since the economic 
crisis began, this has primarily impacted our 
inspection related businesses. 
Consumer demand for product variety and 
safe, environmentally friendly and quality 
products continues to grow. An increasing 
number of products are subject to regulations 
which require them to be tested, often by an 
independent company. 
We are continually developing the range of 
services we can offer customers and expanding 
the industry sectors that we cover. Each of our 
divisions broadly supports different industries 
although customers have access to all the services 
available in the Group. We provide local support to 
our customers on an international scale by locating 
our ofﬁ ces and laboratories close to our customers’ 
buying ofﬁ ces and manufacturers. 
The trend is for customers to concentrate on their 
core business and reduce their ﬁ xed costs by 
outsourcing any non-core activities to specialists. 
We have a successful track record of providing 
outsourced laboratory services to many leading 
companies in a wide variety of industries. 
We have acquired over 50 businesses in the past 
ﬁ ve years to complement and enhance our service 
portfolio. In 2009, we reduced our investment 
in acquisitions to reﬂ ect the uncertain market 
conditions and provide increased capacity to fund 
medium or larger acquisitions should suitable 
opportunities arise. 
 
