 12 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer’s Review
Our clients are producing some of the most exciting innovations  
in their industries today, ranging from creating safer and more 
environmentally friendly products, to introducing groundbreaking 
technologies and developing alternative sources of energy. As the 
environment in which they are operating is evolving, our clients are 
rapidly adapting their strategies, business models and supply chains 
to ensure they keep their competitive edge. Intertek is changing 
with them, as we continue to execute our customer-focused  
Intertek as One strategy. 
In 2009, we further strengthened the integration and co-operation 
across the operating divisions with the nomination of a further  
eight country managers, bringing the total to 25, covering 84%  
of the Group’s revenues. The country managers are responsible for 
co-ordinating the actions and activities of the operating divisions 
within a country to ensure that we present a consistent ‘face’  
to our clients and simplify our service offering to enable them to 
understand exactly how we can help them. 
Under the Intertek as One initiative, we met with more than  
200 global industry leading clients to understand their priorities. 
These meetings not only provided insight into their business 
challenges; we were able to talk about how we can expedite their 
product time-to-market, improve their supply chains, reduce cost 
and increase efﬁciency, meet regulatory requirements and adopt 
sustainable business practices. These client engagements resulted  
in over 130 assignments and contracts, including some signiﬁcant 
projects with world-leading companies to provide services from the 
combined divisions of Intertek. 
We also learnt that Intertek enjoys a reputation for integrity, speed  
of response, and prompt delivery of unique solutions, which is one 
of our competitive advantages. As we move into 2010, we will focus 
on developing collaborative relationships based on mutual trust and 
conﬁdence, sustaining momentum in pursuing new opportunities, 
and delivering superior service that encourages retention.
Our Intertek as One 
programme positions  
us to serve our customers 
better and help them 
succeed in a difﬁcult 
business environment.
Mark Loughead
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer
Directors’ Report – Business Review www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 13
In support of our single ‘face’ to clients and stakeholders, we 
launched the new Intertek website at www.intertek.com. Going 
forward, we will build on this new platform to increase engagement 
and develop new business. 
Internally we are investing in infrastructure improvements to enable 
faster, more efﬁ cient service and productivity that will lead to higher 
long-term margins. We will transition to common systems and 
processes, beginning with the Intertek Common Financial Platform 


system and Customer Relationship Management system, fully 
integrated across all divisions in the USA, operating from a newly 
created shared service centre in Houston. 
We have reduced costs by leveraging our combined buying 
power across the Group and utilising central procurement teams. 
To date, we have consolidated our suppliers for services such as 
travel, telecoms, logistics ofﬁ ce supplies and laboratory equipment 
and we will continue to seek other cost saving arrangements. 
Also as part of this strategy, and aligned with our corporate social 
responsibility planning, we are establishing a sustainable and 
ethical procurement system.
We have also redesigned and relaunched the Intertek Intranet 
with improved graphics and enhanced content, which will serve 
to inform and align our global organisation in support of our 
growth initiatives. 
What we’ve accomplished this past year has positioned us to serve 
our customers better and help them succeed in a difﬁ cult business 
environment. There is no end point for our Intertek as One strategy, 
which will evolve as we invest in our capabilities and our people. 
We will continue to prioritise our spending where we see 
opportunities to grow our business and deliver faster, more 
efﬁ cient customer service.
Intertek – The marks of quality
For more than 100 years, Intertek 
has guided clients through the 
challenging certiﬁ cation process. 
Offering the broadest range of 
certiﬁ cation and accreditation marks 
accepted in markets around the world, 
Intertek can help clients to succeed 
in new and existing markets, meet 
evolving regulatory requirements and 
win new customers.
