 06 Intertek Annual Report 2010
Chairman’s Statement 
Results 
Intertek has delivered strong full year growth in 2010, ending the 
year with revenue of £1,374.2m, an increase of 11% over the prior 
year. Excluding acquisitions revenue growth was 10%. 
Operating profit was £206.5m, up 11% over the prior year.  
Adjusted operating profit
1
 increased to £227.5m, up 9% and  
our adjusted operating margin was 16.6%. Excluding acquisitions, 
adjusted operating profit grew by 9%. 
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share were 80.7p, up 11% over last year and 
diluted adjusted earnings per share were 89.4p, up 10%. 
Dividends
An interim dividend of 9.3p per share (2009: 8.2p) was paid to 
shareholders on 19 November 2010. The Directors will propose  
a final dividend of 18.8p per share at the Annual General Meeting 
on 20 May 2011, to be paid on 17 June 2011 to shareholders on  
the register at close of business on 3 June 2011. If approved, this  
will make a full year dividend of 28.1p per share (2009: 25.5p),  
an increase of 10%. 
Acquisitions
We are continuing to invest and completed seven acquisitions during 
the year, for consideration of £41.2m (2009: £29.7m). Details of 
these acquisitions are given in the Operating Review by division and 
in note 22 to the financial statements. Our strategy of growing key 
industry sectors through acquisitions is unchanged and with our 
strong financial position we will continue to make targeted bolt-on 
acquisitions and to evaluate strategic acquisitions to increase 
shareholder value.
The Board 
On 26 April 2010, Lloyd Pitchford joined the Board as Chief 
Financial Officer. Lloyd spent ten years with BG Group plc, one  
of the largest UK publicly listed companies, holding the role of 
Group Financial Controller for the past five years. Lloyd’s extensive 
international and management experience with large, complex  
and growing organisations will assist Intertek to explore exciting 
opportunities across global markets. I am delighted to welcome 
Lloyd to the Board and am confident that he will be a strong 
contributor to Intertek’s continued success. 
Vanni Treves
Chairman
The Group delivered annual 
revenue of £1,374.2m, an 
increase of 11% over the  
prior year, driven by growth 
in activity in all divisions.
Adjusted operating profit
1
  
was £227.5m, up 9%  
and earnings per share were  
89.4 pence, an increase  
of 10%.
1  Before separately disclosed items which are detailed in note 4 to the  
financial statements. Intertek Annual Report 2010 07
www.intertek.com
On 31 December 2010, Mark Loughead stepped down from  
his role as Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director on the  
Board after a successful 22 year career with Intertek. Mark will 
remain with the Group to ensure a smooth handover of his 
responsibilities before retiring during 2011. On behalf of Intertek,  
I would like to thank Mark for his dedicated service and for the 
significant contribution he has made to the Group as Chief 
Operating Officer, as a Director and as Chief of the Oil, Chemical  
& Agri division previously. He leaves the Board with our gratitude  
and best wishes for his retirement from the Group.
On 14 February 2011, Intertek announced that Michael Wareing  
and Alan Brown will join the Board as Non-Executive Directors  
on 15 April 2011. Michael Wareing is currently a Non-Executive 
Director and Audit Committee Chairman at Wolseley plc, a Non-
Executive Director and Audit Committee Chairman designate at 
Cobham plc and is Chairman of the Iraq Advisory Board for G4S  
plc. Michael has major international and board level knowledge  
gained during an extensive global career up to senior partner  
level at KPMG. His last position at KPMG was as International 
Chief Executive Officer, a position he occupied for four years.
Alan Brown is currently Chief Executive Officer of Rentokil Initial  
plc, a position he has held since April 2008 when he was brought  
in to lead a new executive management team. Alan spent 25 years  
at Unilever PLC where he rose through a variety of finance roles  
in the UK and Europe and then general management in Taiwan, 
Hong Kong and China. His last four years were as Executive 
Chairman of Unilever China. Following this, Alan returned to the  
UK as Chief Financial Officer at Imperial Chemical Industries PLC, 
taking a leading role in the divestment of the Company. 
I am very pleased to welcome two such high calibre individuals  
to the Intertek Board.
Environmental impact
Intertek is committed to playing an important and positive role with 
respect to climate change and the environmental impact of products 
and processes. We advise our clients, as an integral part of our 
business, on many issues which have an impact on the environment, 
such as the chemical content of their products and packaging, the 
energy efficiency of their equipment, CO2 emissions and the disposal 
of harmful substances and waste electrical products. We also provide 
advisory and consultancy services to help retailers and manufacturers 
design their products and services to comply with current and future 
environmental regulations around the world. Through our services 
we help our clients to minimise the environmental impact of their 
products and processes for the benefit of society as a whole.  
We are also mindful of our own impact on the environment and 
details of our energy saving initiatives are given in the Corporate 
Social Responsibility Report. 
Quality and integrity
Quality and integrity are central to our proposition to customers,  
and therefore form the heart of Intertek’s culture and processes.  
We have embedded our values across the organisation and are 
continually reviewing and reinforcing our internal processes to 
ensure compliance. The Intertek Compliance Code and Code of 
Ethics provide practical guidance and instruction for employees  
and there are email and telephone hotlines so that staff may  
report anonymously any inaccurate or unethical working practices. 
Our strong focus on compliance provides assurance to our 
customers that our reports and certificates are valid and accurate.
Our people 
Our mission to support and add value for our customers is delivered 
through over 27,000 people across Intertek worldwide. The dedication 
of our employees to customer service and going the extra mile has 
helped us to retain business in the face of increased competition.  
We constantly strive to improve our capacity to attract, develop and 
retain the best people who share in the mission, values and success 
of the Group. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to welcome all new employees 
to Intertek and to thank all our employees around the world for their 
commitment to making 2010 another successful year.
Summary 
Intertek produced strong results for the year with a notable 
acceleration in the second half. As the year progressed and market 
conditions improved, we invested in both people and assets to 
capture this recovering growth.
