 08 Intertek Annual Report 2010
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
Delivering sustainable growth
Our strategy
Our mission is to add value to our customers’ processes, products 
and brands through providing quality and safety services.
We concentrate on industry sectors in which we have the critical size 
to provide our customers with global world-class services which are 
based on a deep understanding of their current and evolving future 
needs and challenges.
Our organisation
Our divisions are organised to focus on specific industry sectors and 
continuously strive to improve their capabilities and procedures in 
delivering customer centric services. In addition, our Intertek as One 
programme is strengthening the operational and sales synergies 
between all Intertek business units on a country by country basis. 
We continued this programme throughout 2010 and also increased 
our cross-selling. We also gave our Executive Vice Presidents new 
regional responsibilities for Intertek business and operational 
development. This will focus our efforts and success in terms of 
transnational networking, sales and operational improvements 
across all countries in that region.
Our customers’ industries do not stand still; therefore we continually 
adapt and develop our organisational structure to best meet their 
evolving needs. Thus from 1 January 2011, we reorganised our 
operational structure to improve the alignment of our business lines 
with those of our customers and renamed certain divisions to better 
describe their core activities. The key changes are:
Oil, Chemical & Agri (OCA) is renamed  • Commodities and 
incorporates Minerals;
Analytical Services (AS) is renamed  • Chemicals & Pharma and 
incorporates Health & Environmental (formerly in IS);
Industrial Services (IS) is renamed  • Industry & Assurance and 
incorporates Food (formerly in Consumer Goods), Agri (formerly  
in OCA) and Upstream (formerly in AS).
Our Half Year Results for 2011 will be reported in the new structure 
and all prior period comparative figures will be restated to show a 
like-for-like comparison. 
Our highly motivated people are chosen for their understanding  
of local culture as well as their industry expertise. We appreciate  
that our people are our core assets and invest continuously in them. 
Our excellent staff, industry leading response times and high value 
solutions differentiate us in the marketplace. 
Global reach
As supply chains and sales patterns continue to change we  
have established a network of laboratories and offices located 
where our customers need them. By providing a central Intertek 
relationship for all our clients’ testing, inspection and certification 
needs globally, we help remove the need to engage multiple 
vendors in different markets. Our close relationship with our 
customers and our reputation for quality enables us to develop 
partnerships with many globally renowned companies where we 
take over and operate our customers’ in-house testing facilities or 
quality processes along their supply chain. Companies can outsource 
their laboratory activities to Intertek and be confident that the 
service they receive will be both high quality and more cost effective.
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Officer
Valued Quality. Delivered. 
In a world of increasing 
quality, safety and 
sustainability expectations, 
we see higher product 
variety, changing sourcing 
patterns and greater supply 
chain complexity. 
In response to these 
challenges, our brand 
proposition represents  
the value we add to our 
customers’ businesses 
through the quality we 
deliver and our speed  
of delivery.  Intertek Annual Report 2010 09
www.intertek.com
Customer-first strategy
Our strategy is to be the premier high value service provider in our 
industry sectors and we will continue to build a full service portfolio 
to offer our customers one-stop shopping solutions and give us  
the opportunity to leverage excellent customer relationships across  
a broad portfolio. Our reputation as an international support partner 
with integrity and consistent standards of service gives clients peace 
of mind that Intertek can test to the quality, safety or environmental 
levels demanded by the markets they operate in. 
Besides focusing on delivering strong organic growth rates we  
will continue our well defined acquisition strategy to strengthen  
our position in evolving market segments and the important  
regional markets of the future. We will do this with small to  
medium sized bolt-on acquisitions but we are also well prepared  
to be an active consolidator in the industry. 
Market drivers
The drivers of growth in our business remained robust in 2010. 
Global trade volumes improved in 2010 over 2009, meaning that  
the 30% of our business which relies on this also performed better. 
The constant creation of new products and technologies drives 
demand for our services. Increasing concern by consumers and 
governments about the quality, safety and environmental impact  
of products also drives demand for our work. We continue to 
develop complementary new services that will support our clients’ 
present and future needs and increase our market share in certain 
regions and geographies to drive growth in the business. 
Intertek enables companies to concentrate on their core business 
and reduce their fixed costs by outsourcing more of their quality  
and safety needs to us. The majority of the quality and safety 
services performed in the world today are still performed by 
companies in-house. Our ability to provide more outsourced 
laboratory services to our clients also feeds our growth. We continue 
to acquire businesses that complement and enhance our service 
portfolio and these supplement our organic growth. We acquired 
seven excellent companies in 2010 which brought us new skills,  
sales and business development opportunities in growing markets.
Environmental focus
Our commitment to sustainability is reflected not only in our 
operations but also through investing in services that enable  
our customers to become more sustainable. By helping our  
clients develop more ‘green’ and sustainable products through 
socially responsible supply chains we make the greatest impact  
on sustainability. 
In addition, as green and renewable technology development 
continues to expand, higher volumes of testing and new bespoke 
laboratory technologies are needed to evaluate and support 
ongoing innovation and products in this area. Over the last  
18 months, Intertek has opened several new, energy efficient 
laboratories and innovated new testing methodologies and 
certification systems for clients in industries from alternative  
fuels and energy storage to bio-textiles and medical products.  
In November 2010, we strengthened our expertise in renewable 
energy services with the acquisition of Metoc, a global provider  
of engineering and environmental consultancy services.
We also recognise our responsibility for improving our own 
operational sustainability. In May 2010 we moved a number  
of our Mexico operations to a new ‘green’ centralised facility,  
helping unite previously dispersed facilities to a building designed  
to help reduce energy, water usage, carbon emissions and waste  
but also to provide clients with one convenient location offering 
unified services.
Looking forward
In addition to our global presence in over 100 countries, Intertek  
has an established presence in many of the world’s fast growing, 
emerging markets. We test, inspect and certify the flow of goods 
and commodities from the markets into global trade. As these 
emerging markets evolve into more sophisticated consumer markets, 
the opportunity for our business there is also evolving and growing. 
We will provide more services to emerging local brands in the 
domestic market as rising middle class populations demand  
higher quality, safety and environmental standards from their 
local businesses.
As our customers are increasingly looking for a strong and reliable 
partner to help them meet their quality, safety, environmental and 
regulatory challenges, Intertek will continue to expand its services 
and outsourcing options, helping clients to better manage  
the impact of ongoing changing legislations on their products, 
operations and supply chains.
Through these value-adding services we will strengthen our  
client relationships as we become more integral in their business 
and on hand for future support services, actively working together 
to help prevent health, safety, environmental damage and 
operational risks.
Intertek – The marks of quality
For more than 100 years, Intertek has  
guided clients through the challenging  
certification process. Offering the broadest  
range of certification and accreditation  
marks accepted in markets around the world, 
Intertek can help clients to succeed in new  
and existing markets, meet evolving regulatory 
requirements and win new customers.
Directors’ Report – Business Review 10 Intertek Annual Report 2010
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
Intertek in action
Our global network
Locations
Case study
Mexico 
New Green HQ 
Our new 91k sq ft facility in 
Mexico City, has state-of-the-
art environmental features  
that will support trade growth 
in the Mexican consumer 
goods, energy, food and 
agriculture industries
Brazil 
Supporting Oil & Gas 
operations 
We help oil and gas operations 
in Brazil, through providing 
inspection, quality control, 
regulation compliance 
programmes and  
infrastructure services.
USA
New electric vehicle  
recharge technologies
We certified innovative new 
charging devices for General 
Motors’ Chevy ‘Volt’ electric 
vehicle. Our ETL Mark shows its 
compliance to North American 
product safety standards.
Revenue distribution
Americas
33%
Asia 
Pacific
38%
EMEA
29% www.intertek.com
Intertek Annual Report 2010 11
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Tunisia
Connecting solar farms  
to the European grid
We are helping Nur Energie  
to develop a solar power tower 
plant in Tunisia that will have  
a cable running across the 
Mediterranean and into Europe. 
This will be the first major solar 
export project in the world. 
Oman/Qatar
Growing demand for oil and 
gas services in the Emirates
We are increasing our 
inspection and lab analysis 
work for local and international 
oil and gas companies in the 
region to support their  
global trade.
India
Inspecting new 
electrification networks 
We inspect the quality  
of transmissions as new 
electrification networks are 
installed across India under  
a national programme. 
China 
Industrial quality  
assurance in Shanghai
Intertek’s inspection  
services helped in the  
efficient construction  
of Shanghai’s leading  
‘No. 6’ Garden hospital.
UK
Making clothing slash-proof
Our textiles team helped  
UK company PPSS to launch  
new slash-proof clothing 
technology used by police  
and security personnel.
Sweden
Environmental certification 
at leading car maker 
We helped Volvo Dealers 
Association to certify  
Volvo dealers in Sweden 
against environmental  
and quality management 
systems standards.
Netherlands
Safer plastic packaging 
We help companies make 
plastic packaging safer for 
human health and comply  
with regulations. 
Romania
Infrastructure laser scanning 
We scan new oil and gas 
infrastructure in Romania  
to analyse their integrity for  
our client. 
