 Our mission 
Intertek’s mission is to provide solutions to our customers that 
allow them to improve the quality of their products, operations 
and processes. The world’s leading companies, their suppliers 
and partners trust us to add value to their brands by providing 
solutions that enable them to increase their competitive 
advantage and support their global trade. 
Whether we are looking at the largest piece of energy 
infrastructure or the smallest molecule or fibre, more than 
30,000 Intertek people are working in partnership with our 
customers across the length of their supply chains each day.  
Our customers rely on us to be with them at every step from 
product development to point of sale, wherever in the world  
that may be. Our mission requires us to understand the diverse 
local markets and supply chains and industries they operate in, 
whilst also giving them the benefit of global perspective. 
We deliver our services across a wide range of industries as 
shown in the ‘Intertek at a Glance’ section of this Report. 
The market for quality 
Intertek’s marketplace is the drive for quality. As organisations 
develop and pursue success, the quality of their products and 
processes becomes an increasingly important differentiator. 
Quality encompasses many dimensions; all of which Intertek  
sets out to serve. It may include establishing the safety of a  
new prototype or the performance of a new technological 
innovation. We may measure the technical accuracy of a piece  
of infrastructure or verify the sustainability of a supply chain. 
Intertek’s strategic focus is on meeting our customers’ need for 
quality wherever it arises in their organisations and processes.
The demand drivers for our services come from within our 
customers’ organisations and from external commercial, 
regulatory and macro-economic forces. Drivers of the quality 
market include the development of new technologies, the trend 
towards outsourcing non-core activities and the demands of 
consumers across a range of quality, safety and environmental 
criteria. Our clients are also under pressure to increase efficiency, 
speed up time-to-market and reduce costs, to increase their 
competitive edge. Global trade and the continual flux in sourcing 
patterns and supply chains, as well as end-user demand for 
higher quality and more sustainable products are also increasing 
the demand for our services. 
These drivers have shown resilience in times of global economic 
uncertainty, although like all companies we are also impacted by 
developments in the global economy. 
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
Our strategy is well-established.  
It positions us to capture enduring 
drivers of growth for our business  
and to increase our value to 
shareholders and to our customers  
as their global quality partner. 
06 | www.intertek.com
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review Differentiation
Intertek’s focus on quality and our service delivery to customers 
differentiates us in the marketplace. We aim to create a trusted 
partnership with our customers, providing solutions that can 
improve their competitive advantage. Our goal is to create  
added value to their business above and beyond the immediate 
services provided.
As a customer-focused organisation, we recognise that the  
way we deliver our services is as important as what we deliver.  
Our customers want to get their products to market today  
more quickly than they did yesterday. They want their cargoes 
transferred faster and their infrastructure projects completed 
ahead of schedule; and they want all of this with more 
reassurance and less risk than before. We continually develop  
our services to meet customer needs for more efficiency, lower 
cost, and greater assurance. 
Expanding capabilities
Intertek focuses on providing a range of complementary services 
to meet the needs of our clients along the entire supply chain. 
We continue to deepen our presence in each of our industries 
through a combination of organic investment, acquisitions and 
launching new products and services to meet customers’ present 
and future needs. 
In 2011 we opened over 20 new facilities in regions where  
our clients are increasing their activities in sourcing new goods, 
producing new technologies or extracting and developing new 
resources. We extended our capabilities and expertise at over  
40 of our global locations in 2011, where our clients’ innovations 
continue to lead us to invest in new testing technologies, 
capabilities and knowledge. 
Our acquisition of the global energy infrastructure and  
business assurance services company, Moody International in 
2011 has significantly expanded our capabilities in the energy 
infrastructure market. We are now a leading provider of global 
technical inspection, consulting and safety services, supporting 
our energy-sector customers on their new and existing 
infrastructure projects. We also completed four further 
acquisitions in 2011, bringing us additional capabilities and 
geographic presence in the food, chemical, agriculture, oil  
and retail sectors. 
Intertek launched a number of new services in 2011. These 
included a dynamic online portal for our retail clients that  
enables them to better collect and collate data on the 
sustainability and quality of their suppliers’ factories, allowing 
continuous monitoring of operational performance inside their 
facilities. For our commodities clients, we launched new retail 
fuel quality management programmes in emerging markets, and 
extended our combined fuel additive and cargo transfer solutions 
into Central and South America. We doubled our testing 
capability for renewable energy testing technologies in North 
America and opened new energy storage and electrical vehicle 
battery testing laboratories in China, Europe and North America. 
We launched new expert analytical capabilities in the biologics 
pharmaceutical market. 
Our organisation
Intertek is connected by specialist divisions and by geography. 
Our customers benefit from global knowledge combined with 
local support and in-depth understanding of local market 
conditions. Our internal Intertek as One programme is enabling 
us to better combine and bundle services to our clients to meet  
a wider range of quality needs across their organisation. This 
programme is also allowing us to improve our operational 
efficiency with better operating platforms and connectivity 
between our people and business services. We continue to  
invest in our people and processes to provide our customers  
with even better delivery of quality. 
Going forward
Our strategy is well-established and continues to allow us to 
grow our business and to increase our value to shareholders. 
 
the increasing demand for our services, and to maintain 
differentiation which positions us as a sought-after and trusted 
partner to our clients.
Our broad portfolio of industry services and geographic diversity 
provides the platform to invest in fast growing sectors and 
markets and positions us well for future growth. 
 
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 07
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review Market drivers in our industries
As our customers develop new products, build new infrastructure and get 
their products and projects to market more quickly, we help them ensure 
that their business isn’t compromised by poor quality. Companies seek quality 
solutions for a wide variety of reasons. Some common ones are listed here. 
Our 
market 
Global quality services
The global marketplace for quality solutions is dynamic and diverse. As organisations in 
developed and developing economies pursue success, the need to develop and maintain 
the right quality in their products and processes arises. Below are some of the dynamics 
that create Intertek’s chosen marketplace: Quality. 
End-user expectations
Consumers in developed economies trust companies that deliver products, or 
perform, with consistent quality. This requires investment in quality solutions to 
maintain or increase their reputation for ‘quality’. Consumers in emerging markets  
are also demanding higher levels of quality across a diverse range of criteria, creating 
new markets for quality services from local and international brands.
New technologies 
Companies create new products and technologies to create new markets, increase 
sales and to respond to diverse end-user demands. Quality services are needed from 
the concept stage through to delivery to the end market. 
Regulations 
Quality, safety and environmental regulations and industry standards continue to 
expand and change across companies and cultures. Companies utilise quality 
services to maintain compliance and navigate regulatory change. 
Supply chain dynamics 
Our customers create products and infrastructure using suppliers and components 
across multiple countries. They seek assurances on quality along the supply chain  
to reduce the risk of product, brand and operational failures, and to increase visibility 
and efﬁciency along the supply chain. 
Energy growth and development 
Global demand for energy is driving increased development and trading of energy 
resources and infrastructure. Our customers are requiring more quality, safety and 
environmental assurance support in their expanding resource production and 
trading activities. 
Safety
Reducing the risk of injuries and 
danger to life and health from 
products, materials, components 
and operations.
Sustainability
Helping companies to improve the 
social, health and environmental 
impact of their products and 
processes. 
Performance
Enabling organisations to optimise 
the technical output of their 
products or processes. 
Integrity
Evaluating the composition or 
reliability infrastructure, materials, 
commodities, components and 
systems. 
Desirability
Increasing the appeal of products, 
materials and new innovations to 
the varying preferences of end-users 
in different markets.
What is quality?
The need for quality arises at many 
separate and interrelated points across a 
customer’s organisation. Quality is diverse 
and may reﬂect one or many of the 
following dimensions – all of which 
Intertek serves.
08 | www.intertek.com
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review Our growth opportunities
Macro-economic trends and opportunities in our sector create growth in the demand  
for quality services and add resilience to our business model. We see continuing 
opportunities to expand our business and increase value to shareholders due to  
the following enduring drivers of growth in our marketplace.
Intertek is positioned to capture the additional market created 
through growth and increasing interconnectedness in global 
trade as well as expanding regional trade among fast-growth 
nations. In creating, buying and selling products each day, our 
customers seek independent assurance on the quality of 
materials received from their trading partners. 
Global trade and 
emerging market  
trade growth
Our customers’ efforts to innovate, meet consumer demand  
for quality, develop energy resources, maintain efficient supply 
chains and comply with regulations create demand for quality 
services. Their ongoing development of new technologies, 
energy resources and quality in their products is increasing  
the demand for our solutions. 
Market drivers  
in our industries
Network and  
service expansion
Expanding our services into new markets and developing 
new services in existing markets will enable us to capture 
new business. We continue to invest in new services and 
capabilities to support our customers’ current and future 
needs and to expand in growing markets. 
Outsourcing and 
consulting services
By creating quality solutions that enhance our customers’ 
business, we can increase the outsourcing of quality services 
and related consultancy by companies to Intertek. Today, 
many companies address quality needs internally but at a 
higher cost with less flexibility and dedicated knowledge. 
Industry consolidation
By making value-adding acquisitions, we are consolidating 
our position in key industries. These also allow us to add 
complementary capabilities to our service portfolio and 
grow our business through a full-service offering for each 
customer in each industry. 
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 09
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review Global
Quality
Partner
Differentiate 
Intertek’s mission is to deliver quality solutions that add value to our customers’ 
processes, products and brands. Our business is differentiated through our strategic 
choice of target market, how and where we deploy our services in that market,  
and in the way we interact with our customers. 
Global trade model
Intertek has a unique and strategic focus on 
supporting organisations’ needs for quality as  
they arise in the context of global trade. Our 
business model targets the testing, inspection  
and certification of goods, commodities and 
infrastructure flowing along supply chains and 
between different markets and into global trade. 
Industry focus
We are organised around the industries that  
we operate in. This enables us to best meet the 
quality needs of each industry, which arise at many 
separate and interrelated points specific to their 
industries and organisations. 
Target whole  
supply chain
Different quality needs exist at each stage of the 
supply chain; from the sourcing of raw materials  
or prototype testing, to the manufacture and 
distribution of a finished product. We position  
our business along the length of the supply chain 
to support the needs of customers at each stage. 
Customer-oriented 
relationships
The way that we approach our customer relationships 
differentiates us. We aim to create a trusted 
partnership with our customers, becoming an integral 
part of their businesses and providing solutions that 
can improve their competitive advantage. We focus 
on understanding our customers’ businesses and 
their needs and pressures. Our strategy is to provide 
our solutions in a way that can help them better 
meet those needs and improve their businesses. 
Our  
strategy 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review
10 | www.intertek.com Network expansion
 
in key industries
New services for the 
present and future
Investing in  
our people 
We continue to expand and deepen our network and 
knowledge in new regions and in new and existing industries 
to capture opportunities for growth. This enables us to meet 
demand from changes in global, interregional and local trade 
and deepen our position in established and growing markets. 
We develop our service lines to support quality needs along 
the length of the supply chain through organic investment 
and acquisition. We concentrate on industry sectors where 
we have the critical size to hold leading positions and 
provide our customers with world-class services. 
We create new services and innovations for our customers to 
help their businesses succeed. We develop capabilities along 
the frontier of science and innovation which drives market 
demand for quality services in the future. We develop new 
tools and interfaces in areas where we can support customers 
in new, smarter ways.
Our people are our core assets and we invest continually  
in them. They are chosen for their technical expertise,  
values and their understanding of local culture. Our people 
are experts and leaders in their fields, including engineers, 
chemists, biologists, consultants and geologists. Many are 
holders of research doctorates, are graduates or advisors  
to global institutions. Our talented and dedicated people 
provide our customers with the expertise they need  
to succeed.
Deliver 
Our strategy is to be the premier service provider in our chosen 
markets. We continue to invest in and develop our business 
delivery model in order to be our customers’ partner of choice. 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 11
