 Sir David Reid
Chairman 
Results
It was my great pleasure to join Intertek at the end of 2011 and  
I am delighted to announce strong full year growth. The Group 
generated revenue of £1,749m, an increase of 27% over the prior 
year. Excluding acquisitions, revenue growth was 8%.
Operating profit was £234m, up 13% over the prior year. 
Adjusted operating profit increased to £281m, up 24% and our 
adjusted operating margin was 16.1%. Excluding acquisitions, 
adjusted operating profit grew by 9%.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share were 86.8p, up 8% over the prior year 
and adjusted diluted earnings per share were 107.2p, up 20%.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 10.7p per share (2010: 9.3p) was paid to 
shareholders on 18 November 2011. The Directors will propose  
a final dividend of 23.0p per share at the Annual General Meeting 


will make a full year dividend of 33.7p per share (2010: 28.1p),  
an increase of 20%.
Acquisitions
We continue to make targeted acquisitions and in 2011 we 
completed the significant purchase of Moody International 
(‘Moody’), along with four smaller but strategically important 
acquisitions for a cash consideration of £460m (2010: £42m). 
Further details of these acquisitions are given in the Operating 
Review by division and in note 10 to the financial statements.  
Our strong financial position will allow us to continue to make 
advantageous bolt-on acquisitions in key industry sectors and  
to evaluate strategic acquisition opportunities to increase 
shareholder value. 
Moody International
When we presented our 2010 results in March 2011, we 
announced the £450m acquisition of Moody, a leading provider 
of technical services to the global energy industry and a provider 
of systems certification services. This acquisition has positioned 
Intertek at the forefront of the global energy market and has 
provided a platform for the provision of infrastructure services 
whilst extending the depth of our service portfolio for energy 
assets, processes and products. We have integrated Moody  
into our Industry & Assurance business and we are delighted  
to welcome the company and its 2,500 employees into the 
Intertek family. 
It was my great pleasure to join 
Intertek at the end of 201 1 and  
I am delighted to announce strong 
full year growth. 
04 | www.intertek.com
Chairman’s Statement The Board
It was my great pleasure to join Intertek at the end of last year 
and I am looking forward to chairing the Board and continuing  
its successful track record. Since joining the Board I have  
been impressed by the members’ mix of skills and business 
experience and their commitment to the highest standards  
of corporate governance.
During the year we welcomed Michael Wareing and Alan Brown 
to the Board as Non-Executive Directors on 15 April 2011. Further 
details of their business experience can be found in their 
biographies on page 37. 
Vanni Treves retired as Chairman and from the Board on  
31 December 2011. As Chairman of the Board over a period of 
ten years he made a major contribution to Intertek’s development 
and growth. The Board expresses their gratitude for his work  
and wishes him every enjoyment for the future. 
On 31 December 2011, David Allvey and Debra Rade stepped 
down from the Board after serving ten and six years respectively. 
They leave with our thanks for the invaluable role that they have 
played in positioning Intertek for continued strong growth.  
Gavin Darby chose not to seek re-election to the Board at the 
Annual General Meeting, effectively stepping down from the 
Board on 20 May 2011. 
Into 2012 the Board continues to have the strength and 
experience required to perform its duties effectively. 
Sustainability
In 2011 Intertek reviewed and reaffirmed its commitment  
to sustainability. Whilst being a service provider means that 
Intertek’s operations have a lower impact on the environment 
than other business sectors, we are mindful of the impact that 
our operations may have on our communities, employees, 
customers and the environment. 
Intertek is a global and local business with operations that span 
more than 1,000 laboratories and offices. The Group’s approach 
to sustainability reflects this diversity. Intertek has a global 
sustainability policy framework with programmes for 
implementation down to the local level. This enables local 
management to adapt these global policies and implement them 
appropriately in their respective areas and local environment. 
Since joining the Group I have been impressed by the many ways 
in which Intertek’s services are helping to protect human health 
and the environment. Intertek is helping companies to develop 
safer, greener products and to run safer operations with better 
integrity and a lower social and environmental impact. It plays  
an important role in helping companies achieve compliance with 
safety, quality and environmental regulations and helping them  
to adapt their products and processes to meet future regulations. 
Given the commitment of our people and their spirit of good 
corporate citizenship, our sustainability efforts will help underpin 
 
in this area in the Sustainability and CSR report which starts on 
page 30.
Integrity
As an enterprise where integrity, independent judgement and fair 
assessment are critical components of the services we provide, it 
is essential that we are committed to having good business ethics. 
The Group has robust ethical policies and control procedures 
against corruption and bribery. These policies and procedures  
are well developed and are continually reviewed to align with  
best practice and ensure that they remain in step with the values 
and evolution of our business. 
Our people
Our people and their dedication to adding value to customers’ 
products and processes, are central to our success in the global 
marketplace. We strive to attract, develop and retain the best 
people who share in the mission, values and success of the Group 
and can help us to provide our customers with deep insight and 
understanding of quality issues in their industries from a local  
and global perspective. It is this network of skills and experience 
among our people that helps to set us apart from our competitors, 
providing valuable business support to our customers which, in 
turn, strengthens our partnership with them.
Through acquisitions and organic growth we added over 4,500 
new employees in 2011 and I would like to welcome them to  
the Group. More than 30,000 Intertek people now work to 
support our customers in over 100 countries every day. The 
dedication of our employees to customer service helped us to 
gain new business and strengthen our relationships with our 
customers in 2011. 
The Board extends its thanks to all of our employees around the 
world for their continuing commitment and work which has made 
2011 another successful year.
Outlook
Our strong growth drivers combined with our strategic focus on 
supporting global quality needs give us confidence that we will 
report another year of strong results in 2012 and extend our track 
record of growth delivery into the future. 
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 05
Chairman’s Statement
