 “ The world’s leading companies,  
their suppliers and partners trust 
us to add value to their brands. 
Critical to our success is our ability to 
deliver solutions that bring beneﬁts 
to our customers’ organisations.” 
2012 saw Intertek deliver another year of strong growth despite  
a difﬁcult global economic environment. We achieved this growth 
through consistent implementation of our well-established 
mission and strategy. This remains at the centre of our ability  
to systematically capture the growth opportunities arising from 
our different markets. 
Our mission and strategy 
Our mission is ‘to provide solutions to our customers that allow 
them to improve the quality of their products, operations and 
processes’. The world’s leading companies, their suppliers and 
partners trust us to add value to their brands. We do this by 
providing solutions based on their desired quality level that 
enables them to increase their competitive advantage and 
support their global trade objectives. Intertek’s strategic  
focus is on meeting our customers’ need for quality across  
their organisations and along their complex supply chains. 
Our strategy also allows us to drive growth in our business in  
the future since the needs of our customers and the marketplace 
for quality solutions is an ever changing environment. 
The market for quality
Our marketplace is the desire for quality by organisations  
as they develop and pursue success across their businesses  
and operations. Quality encompasses many dimensions, from 
safety and performance through to integrity, desirability and 
sustainability. The demand drivers for our quality services come 
from within our customers’ organisations and from external 
commercial, consumer, regulatory and macro-economic forces. 
Global trade and the continual ﬂux in sourcing patterns and 
supply chains, as well as end-users’ changing perceptions on 
quality and desire to use more sustainable products are steadily 
expanding the demand for our services.
Our customers
Intertek has over 200,000 customers, ranging from the smallest 
business with unique local needs, to the largest conglomerate 
seeking multinational support. As the trusted partner of many  
of the world’s leading brands and their suppliers, we help local 
companies to meet local and international quality standards  
and to trade successfully with local and global partners. We help 
global companies achieve higher quality standards across their 
complex international supply chains and in the local markets 
where they seek to do business.
The diverse quality aspects that our customers need to consider  
in their assets, production, products and services is increasing  
and presenting a more complex challenge for them to achieve 
without expert help. This diversity is driven by the development  
of new technologies, the trend towards outsourcing of non-core 
activities and by their desire to meet the changing demands and 
tastes of their end-users across a range of quality, safety and 
environmental criteria. 
Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review
4 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report – Business review Our customers are also under pressure to increase their 
competitive edge through increasing efﬁciency, speeding up 
time-to-market and reducing costs. This means that they are 
constantly looking for better, smarter ways to conduct their 
testing, inspection and certiﬁcation activities which creates 
opportunities for us to increase our support to them by  
evolving our capabilities. 
Critical to our success is our ability to deliver quality solutions that 
add value and beneﬁt to our customers. The following pages of 
this report describe examples of the range of ways that Intertek’s 
solutions are bringing beneﬁts to our customers.
Evolving industries
In 2012 we supported a number of emerging industry 
developments and new technologies. These range from 
‘unconventional’ gas developments in the USA and Australia,  
to the physical and technological developments of energy grid 
networks and the spread of wireless and smart-phone controlled 
technologies into new consumer and industrial product areas.
It is important in delivering our strategy that our capabilities keep 
step with the evolving needs of each industry. Thus we invest in 
new technologies in many different areas to capture organic 
growth opportunities.
Strategic alignment
Intertek operates across a wide portfolio of industry segments.  
In late 2012 we conducted a strategic review of our portfolio of 
more than 20 different global business lines operating within  
our ﬁve divisions. We reviewed the alignment of our capabilities 
against present and anticipated demand within each industry  
and across our different geographical markets. 
As a result, in 2013 we have increased our global strategic focus 
on our key business lines and our operational focus around our 
countries. This model ensures that we are building the right 
knowledge and capabilities to serve the developing needs of  
each industry at a global level, whilst also ensuring our services 
are delivered in a way that recognises local market customs and 
the different operational needs of each country. 
Expanding capabilities
We focus on meeting the needs of our customers by delivering  
a range of complementary services along the entire supply chain. 
Through a combination of new service initiatives, organic 
investment and acquisitions, we continue to deepen our 
capabilities in each of our industries. 
We launched Tradegood in late 2012 which is a new online 
platform helping to match suppliers with buyers and giving buyers 
access to reliable data on suppliers’ qualiﬁcations and credentials 
globally. In the commodities arena, we extended our relationship 
with oil services group Baker Hughes, creating new efﬁciencies  
for our customers by delivering cargo inspection services in 
tandem with Baker Hughes’ treatment of customers’ cargo.  
We also expanded our capabilities in ‘4G’ telecommunications 
and electric vehicle related testing and hold market leading 
positions in those areas. Our new strategic relationship with the 
Quality and Conformity Council of Abu Dhabi will expand our 
capability in the Emirate and support the region’s increasing 
demand for quality in the years to come. 
We opened new facilities in 2012 in regions where our clients  
are increasing their activities in sourcing new goods, producing 
new technologies or extracting and developing new resources.
In addition to our organic investments, the Group completed  
a series of complementary bolt-on acquisitions in 2012. These 
included 4th Strand, a product quality and benchmarking business 
and Automation Technology, asset integrity support experts, both 
located in the USA. 
We expanded our minerals sector capabilities with the acquisition 
of Vigalab Mineral Laboratory in Chile and of Laboratory Services 
International in the Netherlands. Materials Testing & Inspection 
(‘NDT Services’) and Tickford International in the UK also joined 
the Group. These have brought new industrial testing capabilities 
within the aerospace and engine markets respectively along with 
capabilities in surrounding markets. 
Enhancing performance
Intertek is continuing to pursue operational efﬁciencies and 
establish platforms allowing it to better capture growth at a  
lower cost and to integrate acquisitions more efﬁciently. In 2012 
the Group continued the outsourcing of its global IT applications 
and accounting back-ofﬁce support. This is a phased programme 
covering countries in which English is the predominant business 
language, representing nearly 40% of revenue. 
The Group’s 2012 full year adjusted underlying operating margin 
of 16.3% reﬂects a 20 basis point improvement on the prior year, 
achieved through efﬁciency initiatives and economies of scale 
achieved through business growth.
Going forward
Looking ahead to 2013 and beyond we will continue with our 
established strategy, allowing us to grow our business and to 
increase our value to shareholders.
By maintaining our focus on delivering services that add beneﬁt  
to our customers’ organisations, we will continue to be a 
sought-after and trusted partner to our clients.
Our portfolio of industry services, geographic diversity and 
continual development and alignment of our capabilities around 
our mission, will ensure that we have a broad platform to invest  
in fast growing sectors. We are well prepared to capture early 
opportunities arising in the markets of the different industries we 
are serving and are positioned to continue our successful growth 
pattern in the future.
Wolfhart Hauser 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
5 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Whether our customers are developing new products, building 
new infrastructure and/or trying to get their products, services 
and projects to market more quickly, we help them ensure that 
their business is not compromised by poor quality. Companies 
seek quality solutions for a wide variety of reasons. 
The need for quality arises at 
many separate and interrelated 
points across a customer’s 
organisation. Quality is diverse 
and may reﬂect one or many  
of the following dimensions 
– all of which Intertek serves.
Safety
Reducing the risk of injuries 
and danger to life and health 
from products, materials, 
components and operations.
Sustainability
Helping companies  
to improve the social,  
health and environmental 
impact of their products  
and processes. 
Performance
Enabling organisations to 
optimise the technical output 
of their products or processes. 
Integrity
Evaluating the composition  
or reliability of infrastructure, 
materials, commodities, 
components and systems. 
Desirability
Increasing the appeal of 
products, materials and  
new innovations to the varying 
preferences of end-users in 
different markets.
Our market
The global marketplace for quality solutions is dynamic and diverse. As organisations  
in developed and developing economies pursue success, it creates the need to develop 
and maintain the right quality in their products and processes. Below are some of the 
dynamics that create Intertek’s chosen marketplace: Quality. 
s.
h 
.
ut 
es. 
e, 
ng 
Market  
drivers in our 
industries
Regulations 
New
technologies 
Energy  
growth and 
development
End-user
expectations
Supply chain  
complexity 
What is quality? Market drivers in our industries
6 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report – Business review
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review continued Macro-economic trends and opportunities in our sector create growth in the demand  
for quality services. These also add resilience to our business model. We have a range  
of opportunities to expand our business and increase value to shareholders with the 
enduring drivers of growth in our marketplace.
Our growth opportunities
Regulations 
Quality, safety and environmental regulations and industry standards 
continue to expand and change across companies and cultures. 
Companies utilise quality services to maintain compliance and  
navigate regulatory change.
Network and service expansion 
Expanding our services into new markets and developing  
new services in existing markets will enable us to capture  
new business. We continue to invest in new services and  
capabilities to support our customers’ current and future  
needs and to expand in growing markets.
New technologies 
Companies develop new products and technologies to create new 
markets, increase sales and to respond to diverse end-user demands. 
Quality services are needed from the concept stage through to  
delivery to the end market. 
Market drivers in our industries 
Our customers’ efforts to innovate, meet consumer demand 
for quality, develop energy resources, maintain efﬁcient supply 
chains and comply with regulations create demand for quality 
services. Their ongoing development of new technologies,  
energy resources and quality in their products is increasing  
the demand for our solutions.
Supply chain complexity 
Our customers create products and infrastructure using suppliers  
and components across multiple countries. They seek assurances  
on quality along the supply chain to reduce the risk of product, brand 
and operational failures, and to increase visibility and efﬁciency along 
the supply chain.
Outsourcing and consulting services
By creating quality solutions that enhance our customers’ 
businesses, we can increase the outsourcing of quality services  
and related consultancy by companies to Intertek. Today, many 
companies address quality needs internally but at a higher cost  
with less ﬂexibility and dedicated knowledge.
Energy growth and development  
Global demand for energy is driving increased development and 
trading of energy resources and infrastructure. Our customers are 
requiring more quality, safety and environmental assurance support  
in their expanding resource production and trading activities.
Industry consolidation
By making value-adding acquisitions, we are consolidating  
our position in key industries. These also allow us to add 
complementary capabilities to our service portfolio and grow  
our business through a full-service offering for each customer  
in each industry.
End-user expectations
Consumers in developed economies trust brands and companies  
that deliver products, or perform, with consistent quality. This requires 
investment in quality solutions to maintain or increase their reputation 
for quality. Consumers in emerging markets are also demanding higher 
levels of quality across a diverse range of criteria, creating new markets 
for quality services from local and international brands. 
Global trade and emerging market trade growth 
Increasing interconnectedness in global trade and expanding 
regional trade among fast-growth nations is expanding the market 
for Intertek’s services. In creating, buying and selling products each 
day, our customers seek independent assurance on the quality of 
materials received from their trading partners.
7 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Global
Quality
Partner
Our strategy
Intertek’s mission is to deliver quality solutions that add value to our customers’ processes, 
products and brands. Our business is differentiated through our strategic choice of target 
market, how and where we deploy our services in that market, and in the way we interact 
with our customers. 
Global trade model 
Intertek has a unique and strategic focus on supporting 
organisations’ needs for quality as they arise in the context  
of global trade. Our business model targets the testing,  
inspection and certiﬁcation of goods, commodities and 
infrastructure ﬂowing along supply chains and between  
different markets and into global trade. 
Industry focus 
We are organised around the industries that we operate in.  
This enables us to best meet the quality needs of each industry, 
which arise at many separate and interrelated points speciﬁc  
to their industries and organisations. 
Target whole supply chain 
Different quality needs exist at each stage of the supply chain; 
from the sourcing of raw materials or prototype testing, to the 
manufacture and distribution of a ﬁnished product. We position 
our business along the length of the supply chain to support  
the needs of customers at each stage. 
Customer-oriented relationships 
The way that we approach our customer relationships 
differentiates us. We aim to create a trusted partnership with 
our customers, becoming an integral part of their businesses and 
providing solutions that can improve their competitive advantage. 
We focus on understanding our customers’ businesses and their 
needs and pressures. Our strategy is to provide our solutions in  
a way that can help them better meet those needs and improve 
their businesses. 
8 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report – Business review
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review continued Network expansion 
We continue to expand and deepen our network and knowledge in new  
regions and in new and existing industries to capture opportunities for growth.  
This enables us to meet demand from changes in global, interregional and local 
trade and deepen our position in established and growing markets. 
Leading positions in key industries 
We develop our service lines to support quality needs along the  
length of the supply chain through organic investment and acquisition. 
We concentrate on industry sectors where we have the critical size  
to hold leading positions and provide our customers with  
world-class services. 
New services for the present and future 
We create new services and innovations for our customers to help their 
businesses succeed. We develop capabilities along the frontier of science 
and innovation which drives market demand for quality services in the 
future. We develop new tools and interfaces in areas where we can  
support customers in new, smarter ways.
Investing in our people 
Our people are our core assets and we invest continually in them. 
They are chosen for their technical expertise, values and their understanding 
of local culture. Our people are experts and leaders in their ﬁelds, including 
engineers, chemists, biologists, consultants and geologists. Many are holders 
of research doctorates, are graduates or advisors to global institutions. 
Our talented and dedicated people provide our customers with the expertise 
they need to succeed.
Our strategy is to be the premier service provider in our chosen markets.  
We continue to invest in and develop our business delivery model in order  
to be our customers’ partner of choice. 
9 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
