 I am pleased to announce another year of strong growth 
by Intertek and the continued delivery of the Group’s 
successful strategy. 
Intertek’s customers include some of the world’s leading brands 
and companies, as well as their suppliers and governments in 
developing and developed countries. Intertek helps customers  
to assess their products, processes and assets against a wide 
range of quality and related safety, regulatory and performance 
standards. Our services include testing, certiﬁcation, auditing, 
inspection, advisory, training, outsourcing and quality assurance. 
Our work takes us into almost every ﬁeld imaginable, including 
consumer products, electronics, petroleum, minerals, 
pharmaceuticals, chemicals and food.
Results
The Group generated revenue of £2,054m, an increase of 17% 
over the prior year. Excluding acquisitions, revenue growth was 
8.6% at constant exchange rates. Operating proﬁt was £283m, 
up 21% over the prior year. Adjusted operating proﬁt increased  
to £335m, up 19%, and our adjusted operating margin was 16.3%. 
Excluding acquisitions, adjusted operating proﬁt was up 12%.
Earnings and returns to shareholders
The Company’s share price registered another year of strong 
performance in 2012 increasing by 52% and outperforming  
the wider UK market. Looking on a one, three or ﬁve year basis, 
the total shareholder return of Intertek shares also shows the 
Company’s excellent delivery of growth to shareholders on a 
sustained basis. 
Basic earnings per share were 108.2p, up 25% over the prior year 
and adjusted diluted earnings per share were 131.2p, up 22%.
An interim dividend of 13.0p per share (2011: 10.7p) was paid  
to shareholders on 16 November 2012. The Directors will  
propose a ﬁnal dividend of 28.0p per share at the Annual  
General Meeting which will make a full year dividend of 41.0p  
per share (2011: 33.7p), an increase of 22%.
Capital allocation
Intertek continues to generate good cash ﬂow, with 2012 
adjusted cash ﬂow from operations of £345m, an increase  
of 10% on the prior year. The Group increased organic capex  
over the prior year, spending £115m, which represents 5.6% of 
revenue, up from 4.6% of revenue in 2011. This ratio sits within 
our usual range of between 5% and 6% of revenue spent on 
capital investment.
The Group’s allocation of capital aims to pursue organic 
investment to drive sustained growth and shareholder value 
across the medium and longer term. It also aims to ensure we 
pay dividends and to progress the amount of that dividend  
in line with earnings per share growth and to complete  
bolt-on and strategic acquisitions. 
Sir David Reid Chairman 
“ I am pleased to announce another year 
of strong growth by Intertek and the 
continued delivery of the Group’s 
successful strategy.” 
Chairman’s statement
2 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview Acquisitions
We continue to make targeted acquisitions and in 2012 
completed six acquisitions for a cash consideration of £40m 
(2011: £460m including the strategic acquisition of Moody 
International for £450m). Further details of these acquisitions  
are given in the Operating Review by division and in note 10  
to the ﬁnancial statements. 
With our strong ﬁnancial position we will continue to make 
advantageous bolt-on acquisitions and to evaluate strategic 
acquisition opportunities to increase shareholder value.
The Board
On 1 July 2012 we welcomed Louise Makin and Lena Wilson 
to the Board as Non-Executive Directors. Further details of 
their business experience can be found in their biographies  
on page 37.
In line with the Corporate Governance Code and the 2011 
Davies Report, the Board is composed of members with a wide 
range of complementary skills and business experience and is 
comprised of 22% female and 78% male members. The Board 
continues to have the strength and experience required to 
perform its duties effectively and is committed to the highest 
standards of corporate governance.
Sustainability
Intertek’s work is helping to improve the quality and safety of the 
products and services used by people around the world every day. 
By helping companies to produce greener, safer products and to 
operate in a more sustainable way, Intertek makes a substantial 
positive impact on the planet and human health that far 
outweighs our own use of resources.
We are committed to the continuous development of our  
own sustainability. Whilst being a service provider means that 
Intertek’s operations have a lower impact on the environment 
than other business sectors, we have an ongoing commitment to 
sustainability and are mindful of the impact our operations have 
on our communities, employees, customers and the environment. 
In 2012, we increased the monitoring and reporting of our 
sustainability performance. This included increased health  
and safety measurement and the introduction of new personal 
and workplace safety initiatives. We extended our environmental 
impact monitoring and emissions reporting. Further details  
can be found in the Sustainability and CSR report on page 28. 
Integrity
As a provider of independent quality solutions, the integrity  
and ethical conduct of our people and businesses is central  
to our values as an organisation and is critical to our customers 
and to the success of our businesses. 
The Group has robust ethical policies and control procedures 
to ensure that good business ethics are embedded throughout 
our organisation. These policies, procedures and our internal 
performance against them are continually reviewed and aligned 
with best practice. Our compliance initiatives cover a range 
of dimensions including internal training and communications, 
independent internal and external auditing, whistle-blowing 
hotlines, external communication and collaboration with industry 
partners and customers. 
We have increased our disclosure on ethical compliance in 2012, 
and further details can be viewed in the Sustainability and CSR 
report on page 28. 
Our people
Intertek’s people, their skills and experience, and the way  
in which they work together to support our customers are 
qualities that are at the heart of the Group’s success. More than 
35,000 Intertek people work to support our customers in over 
100 countries. 
As a growth company Intertek offers interesting careers and 
professional development for our people. We are proud to  
be able to create new employment opportunities in the many 
different communities in which we work. In 2012, we welcomed 
over 3,000 new employees to the Group through organic growth 
and acquisitions. 
The ongoing development and training of our people is essential 
to Intertek’s continuing success and to fulﬁlling our long-term 
growth potential. During 2012, the Group introduced the Intertek 
Executive Academy to support and develop the talent and 
capabilities of Intertek’s next generation of global leaders.  
We also extended our internal online training programmes,  
which give employees access to more than 100 courses,  
webinars and instructor led training programmes. 
I am pleased to report that Intertek completed its ﬁrst global 
Group-wide employee satisfaction survey in the year, to 
benchmark workplace culture, employee sentiment and 
satisfaction. 62% of employees surveyed responded, with results 
indicating a good performance in many areas but also identifying 
areas for improvement. Another survey is planned for 2013. 
The Board extends its thanks to all of our employees for their  
hard work and endeavour in 2012 which has allowed the Group 
to achieve continued success.
Outlook
The Group continues to implement its clear strategy in delivering 
global quality solutions in a market with strong structural growth 
drivers. This, together with experienced management and a 
sound ﬁnancial position, means that Intertek remains able to 
capture opportunities to deliver resilient growth and performance 
despite times of economic uncertainty. The Board is conﬁdent 
that the Group will deliver on its growth plan in 2013 and into  
the future. 
Sir David Reid 
Chairman
3 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
