 The Board
On 1 September 2013 we welcomed Dr. Mark Williams to the 
Board as Non-Executive Director. His extensive experience in 
the international oil and gas industry will benefit the Group 
going forward. Further details of his business experience can 
be found on page 39. 
The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate 
governance. In line with the Corporate Governance Code and 
the 2011 Davies Report, the Board is committed to achieving 
a Board composition which includes, and makes the best use 
of differences in culture, gender, skills, background, regional 
and industry experience as well as other qualities. The Board’s 
Diversity Policy can be found on the Company’s website.
Sustainability
Intertek is committed to the highest standards of sustainable 
business practices, and we are mindful of the impact our 
operations have on our communities, employees, customers 
and the environment.
Across these areas, Intertek makes a significant contribution 
to improving the quality of our customers’ goods, services 
and processes across multiple dimensions including; improving 
safety, reliability and durability, social responsibility, reducing 
environmental impact in production, packaging and operations, 
and assuring supply chains around the globe. 
We have continued to develop our metrics around our impact 
on climate change. While some of our emissions relate to 
Intertek offices and operations, they also relate to the work we 
do for our clients, including the testing of fuels, the inspection 
of processes and products and the certification of consumer 
products or other equipment in line with agreed standards. As 
well as the Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions figures quoted for 
the Top 25 countries in the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts, 
we have, for 2013, also collected Greenhouse Gas Emissions for 
the Group in line with the requirements of the Companies Act, 
see pages 34 and 35.
Within our own operations we are also focused on the health 
and safety of our employees. Given the varied nature of the 
roles of our employees, and the different environments in 
which they operate, we have robust health and safety policies 
in place to ensure staff welfare is always of utmost importance. 
Integrity
As a provider of independent quality solutions, the integrity and 
ethical conduct of our people and businesses is central to our 
values as an organisation and is critical to our customers and 
to the success of our businesses. 
The Group has robust ethical policies and control procedures 
to ensure that good business ethics are embedded throughout 
our organisation. Our performance against them is continually 
reviewed and the processes aligned with best practice. 
Our compliance initiatives include internal training and 
communications, independent internal and external auditing 
of both operating and financial procedures, whistle-blowing 
hotlines, external communication and collaboration with 
industry partners and customers. 
Our disclosure on ethical compliance in 2013 can be viewed 
in the Sustainability and CSR report on page 33. 
Our people
While Intertek has a unique history and heritage, it is our 
people who are responsible for the delivery of services to our 
customers. With over 36,000 employees across the globe, we 
have deep levels of expertise both geographically and across 
our business lines, provided by chemists, engineers, consultants, 
biologists, inspectors, geologists and auditors, amongst others.
With a strategy based on global business line development 
that is implemented at a country level, we are developing a 
pipeline of managers to lead the Group through its next phase 
of growth. The Intertek Executive Academy, introduced in 2012, 
is already developing the talent and capabilities of the next 
generation of leaders, with around 50 already enrolled in its 
18 month programme. These have been selected from across 
the globe to help drive growth. We are also always on the 
lookout for new talented individuals, whether from progression, 
from acquisitions or externally. During the year the Group’s 
workforce grew by over 1,900 people. We look forward 
to hearing their ideas and contributions to the Intertek 
growth agenda. 
Following the success of the first global Group-wide employee 
engagement survey in 2012, we undertook another survey in 
2013 to chart progress against the key opportunities identified. 
More information on these opportunities is available in the 
Sustainability and CSR report on page 32. Future surveys will 
be conducted on a periodic basis. 
The Board extends its thanks to all of our employees for their 
hard work and endeavour in 2013 which has allowed the Group 
to achieve solid progress and lay foundations for continued 
success into the future.
Outlook
The Group continues to implement its clear strategy in 
delivering global quality solutions in a market with strong 
structural growth drivers. This, together with experienced 
management and a sound financial position, means that 
Intertek remains able to capture opportunities to deliver 
resilient growth and performance despite times of economic 
uncertainty. The Board is confident of delivering further 
growth in the future. 
Sir David Reid
Chairman
“ We are a trusted adviser to our 
customers all over the world.”
Sir David Reid
Chairman
Here at Intertek, our 36,000 employees, operating in over 
100 countries, have a unique perspective on the challenges  
and opportunities arising out of the changing global economy. 
As trade patterns change, supply chains lengthen and emerging 
economies grow, we help our customers adapt to these  
shifting dynamics. Whether it is helping them understand local 
regulations, ensuring the quality of their products, assets and 
processes in their chosen markets, or working with them to 
enter new markets, we are a trusted adviser to our customers  
in over 1,000 locations worldwide. 
Our customers range from multinationals, to governments  
and to small local operators, all of whom rely on the expertise 
that Intertek offers across a wide range of industries and 
geographies. We work closely with our customers to ensure  
we deliver a level of quality that is valued by them, every time.
Results
In 2013, the Group generated revenue of £2,184m, an increase 
of	6%	over	the	prior	year.	Excluding	acquisitions,	revenue	
growth	was	4%	at	constant	exchange	rates.	Operating	profit	
was	£310m,	up	9%	over	the	prior	year.	Adjusted	operating	
profit	increased	to	£343m,	up	2%,	and	our	adjusted	operating	
margin	was	15.7%.	Excluding	acquisitions	and	disposals,	
adjusted	operating	profit	was	down	1%.
The operating results in 2013 reflected variable market 
conditions in our businesses and in the industries we serve. 
Strong progress in our emerging markets, including China and 
India, was partially offset by cyclical headwinds in a number 
of areas, most notably the minerals sector, our chemicals and 
pharmaceutical business in Europe, and in the USA. These 
cyclical market conditions impacted upon the Group’s growth 
rate and its operating margin during the year. 
Earnings and returns to shareholders
The Board continues to focus on Total Shareholder Returns 
through a combination of dividends and through investment in 
the business where the return is in excess of the Group’s cost 
of capital.	The	share	price	increased	2%	in	the	year,	and	the	
Group	has	delivered	Total	Shareholder	Returns	of	85%	and	
334%	over	a	three	and	five	year	period	respectively.
The Group strategy includes both organic and acquisition 
related investment to drive sustained growth and shareholder 
value across the medium and longer term. 
The Board has a progressive dividend policy, seeking to 
grow dividend per share in the medium-term in line with 
earnings per share whilst maintaining a minimum cover of 2.5. 
An interim dividend of 15.0p per share (2012: 13.0p) was paid 
to shareholders on 15 October 2013. The Directors will propose 
a final dividend of 31.0p per share at the Annual General 
Meeting which will make a full year dividend of 46.0p per share 
(2012:	41.0p),	an	increase	of	12%.
The final dividend will be paid on 6 June 2014 for those 
shareholders on the register on 23 May 2014.
Basic	earnings	per	share	were	124.4p,	up	15%	over	the	prior	year	
and	adjusted	diluted	earnings	per	share	were	138.6p,	up	6%.
Cash flow and Investment
Intertek continues to generate good cash flow, with 2013 
adjusted	cash	flow	from	operations	of	£394m,	an	increase	
of 14%	on	the	prior	year.	The	Group	stepped	up	the	level	of	
investment in new laboratories, scientific and IT equipment 
in the	year	spending	£145m,	which	represents	6.6%	of	total	
revenue	(2012:	£115m,	5.6%).	These	investments	reflect	the	
increasing opportunities to grow our services and maintain 
strong long-term value creation for our shareholders.
Acquisitions
This year the Group made some significant acquisitions, notably 
Global	X-Ray	&	Testing	Corporation	(‘GXT’)	and	Architectural	
Testing,	Inc.	(‘ATI’)	which	expanded	our	service	offering	in	
key markets. In 2013 overall we made seven acquisitions for 
a purchase price, including debt, of £122m (2012: £46m). 
Further details are given in the Operating Review by division 
and in note 10 to the financial statements. 
With our strong financial position we will continue to make 
advantageous bolt-on acquisitions and to evaluate strategic 
acquisition opportunities to increase shareholder value.
2 3
Overview
Chairman’s statement
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Many of our customers rely on our employees for advice and 
guidance in meeting ever changing regulatory or standards 
requirements, including those necessary for exporting to 
international markets and trading with local and global 
partners. These prescribe minimum quality standards that  
must be met, and while we can test their products, the value 
we offer is in the advice and expertise we provide on how to 
meet and exceed these standards. 
We can also help our customers with their internal processes, 
whether in the design and manufacturing of products, sourcing 
across the supply chain or in outsourcing non-core activities. 
Our range of testing, inspection and certification activities can 
help reduce time to market, reduce costs and increase efficiency. 
Our success is based on our established processes and 
methodologies, combined with a network of experienced 
people who make it their goal to deliver for the client, every 
time, even as the competitive landscape shifts.
Evolving industries
As technology changes and new industries emerge, we are 
constantly innovating across our service offering to meet the 
needs of our customers. For instance, 2013 saw increased 
commercialisation of products utilising nanotechnology, which 
has applications across a wide range of industries, particularly 
the pharmaceutical industry. 
We contributed to conferences, exhibitions and thought 
leadership papers across the world to demonstrate our skills  
at the forefront of technological innovation. This enables  
us to identify areas of growth and develop our service  
offering accordingly. 
Expanding capabilities
One of the pillars of our strategy is to bring new services to our 
customers so that we can help deliver the many dimensions 
of quality that are important to them. This can range from 
reducing product defects, helping reduce production cycle 
times or reducing the environmental impact of a product, 
service or operation. Our aim is not only to support their 
existing activities, but also to be ready as the next generation 
of products and services are delivered. Through a combination 
of new service initiatives, organic investment and acquisitions, 
we continue to deepen our capabilities in each of our industries. 
For example, in response to issues and questions around global 
supply chains in the food industry, and the provenance of 
ingredients being included in certain consumer products, we 
have	partnered	with	the	Institute	of	Food	Technologies	(‘IFT’)	
in its development of the Global Food Traceability Center in the 
USA which aims to provide unbiased, knowledgeable, scientific 
based advice to the global food industry.
We	have	also	constructed	new	‘4G’	testing	facilities	in	Taiwan	
to take advantage of future developments in the mobile phone 
industry within the region. 
We continue to open new facilities in regions where our clients 
are increasing their activities in sourcing new goods, producing 
new technologies or extracting and developing new resources.
As well as investing organically, in 2013 the Group made a 
series of acquisitions to expand the services we can offer. 
The Group made acquisitions in the strategically important area 
of non-destructive testing, to support the longer life cycles of 
existing infrastructure and the need for on-going preventative 
maintenance. The most significant of these acquisitions was 
Global	X-Ray	&	Testing	Corporation	(‘GXT’),	a	company	
providing services to the oil and gas industry in the USA that 
complements existing services being offered in this segment.
The	Group	also	acquired	Architectural	Testing,	Inc.	(‘ATI’),	a	
building products testing and certification company in North 
America that will expand the range of services being offered 
by the Group in North America, but also help leverage this 
knowledge into growth markets overseas.
In addition to these, the Group also made a series of bolt-on 
acquisitions, including Melbourn Scientific Limited in the UK, 
which expanded our global analytical service offering to the 
pharmaceutical, biotech and healthcare industries. Our global 
network of consumer goods laboratories was expanded with 
the acquisition of E-TEST Laboratorio de Ensaios e Tecnologia 
Ltda.	(‘E-TEST’),	a	toy	and	consumer	products	testing	laboratory	
in Brazil, and there were a series of smaller niche acquisitions 
in growing markets.
Going forward
With strategic priorities identified and embedded within the 
organisation, we expect the global strategy, implemented on  
a local level, to rapidly identify customer issues and deliver 
solutions. The industry growth drivers continue to provide the 
catalyst for change, which we expect to drive demand for our 
services in the future. I am confident that Intertek is well placed 
to benefit from good underlying growth in 2014 and beyond.
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Officer
“ Intertek continued to deliver on its 
strategic priorities in 2013; investing 
in our services, our network, our 
thought leadership and most 
importantly our people. ”
Wolfhart Hauser 
Chief Executive Officer
Intertek continued to deliver on its strategic priorities in 2013; 
investing in our services, our network, our thought leadership 
and most importantly our people to capture the opportunities 
arising from global trade and the development of our 
different markets. 
The year in review
2013 saw a mixed set of results for the Group, with growth 
rates varying across our markets. We saw strong growth in 
China and India, particularly in textiles, while there was slower 
growth in the USA, Europe and the minerals sector. In response 
to these issues we undertook a restructuring exercise in 2012 
and 2013 which sold or closed underperforming operations. 
Due to a longer than expected cyclical downturn in 2013 we 
have extended our restructuring programme into 2014.
We saw strong growth in emerging markets which now 
account	for	38%	of	the	total	revenue,	up	from	36%	in	2012,	
with China growing very well across most business lines, 
especially technical inspection of energy assets, testing of 
electricals, clothing and textiles. Clothing and textiles testing 
also grew strongly in India and Turkey. Slower revenue growth 
came mainly from our USA businesses where strong growth  
in oil cargo inspection and testing for the transport industry 
was masked by a decline in services for energy assets such  
as technical inspection and training. Europe had low overall 
growth with good growth from consumer products and food 
testing offset by decline in technical inspection of energy 
assets, chemical and pharmaceutical analysis and oil and 
agricultural cargo inspection work. Minerals testing declined 
sharply led by the downturn in exploration in Australia, 
South East Asia, Africa and Latin America. 
Strategic alignment 
As reported last year, we have increased our focus on  
the delivery of our strategy across our key business lines, 
supported by operational excellence delivered on a country 
basis. During the year we conducted a review of our strategy 
across the business lines and countries in which we operate, 
and prioritised future investment according to their long-term 
growth potential. We also identified new service offerings  
that will complement our existing services and help drive  
future growth.
Our mission and strategy 
Our	mission	is	‘to	add	value	for	our	customers	by	helping	 
them achieve their desired level of quality and safety for  
their products, assets and processes’. 
We support the world’s leading companies across their  
global supply chains and in each of the local markets in  
which they operate. Our local knowledge, combined with  
our global network and expertise, makes the difference for  
our customers as they strive for quality in an ever more  
competitive marketplace.
The market for quality
‘Quality’	is	defined	differently	across	the	globe,	based	on	the	
economic life cycle of each market and the changing demands 
of customers within that market. External factors such as 
regulatory changes and global macroeconomic trends also 
create pressure for improvements in quality across its many 
dimensions; from safety and performance through to integrity, 
desirability and sustainability.
As the emerging middle classes increase their demands  
for quality, particularly in countries such as China and India, 
there will be huge challenges, and significant opportunities,  
for companies that want to compete in those markets. 
Each company we work with has their own definition of quality, 
being a set of internal and external standards that they look  
to deliver on a consistent basis to support their brand identities. 
We provide solutions that help them achieve these standards 
on a global basis.
Our customers
Intertek’s customers range from multinational corporations  
to local businesses operating in small niche markets. We offer  
a range of services that meet the requirements of these 
businesses, and all sizes in-between.
4 5
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013
