 Sherwood Group plc
02
Annual report and accounts 2002
Chairman’s report
Chairman’s report
Despite a challenging
business climate, the 
Group reported a profit in 
line with market forecasts
and a balance sheet
strengthened with strong
cash generation.
strong
relationships
The Group reports a profit before tax and net exceptional
income of £1.5m (2001: £1.5m on continuing operations);
this is in line with market forecasts. Lower garment sales
prices and reduced lace sales were responsible for the
slightly reduced turnover at £40.1m (2001: £41.4m on
continuing operations). The balance sheet strengthened
with year end cash resources of £3.8m (£0.4m net of debt
at the start of the year). 
Following the Group’s capital re-organisation scheme
approved by shareholders on 20 May 2002, the Board is
recommending a dividend of 0.25 pence per ordinary share,
to be paid on 2 June 2003 subject to shareholder approval.
The results have been achieved despite a challenging
business climate, characterised by intense retail competition
and consequent retailer pressure to reduce garment
supplier prices, together with a further fall in lace sales. 
The Group has responded to the price challenge in
partnership with its suppliers and customers, and has
broadly maintained its margins.
The Directors were pleased to announce the appointment
of Carol Duncumb as Group Chief Executive in November
2002. Carol brings with her a considerable knowledge 
of the clothing industry and is already having a positive 
impact on operations with a high level of energy and
enthusiasm. The Group’s staff have responded
magnificently to this welcome and necessary change of
style and culture. Further management changes have 
been made strengthening the Group’s design and
commercial resources in areas of growth potential.
Carol’s appointment followed the dismissal of the Group’s
former Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive, Michael
Basford, on 25 September 2002. He left with immediate
effect and no compensation of any sort was involved.  Sherwood Group plc
03
Annual report and accounts 2002
Chairman’s report
Mr Basford has not pursued any claim against the Group 
in respect of the circumstances surrounding his departure.
The Group is currently investigating a claim for damages 
as a result of Mr Basford’s actions in the Group’s Halle
division where he spent the majority of his time. Whilst in
executive control of the Group for the period before Carol
joined, I spent a great deal of time in the final quarter, 
and together with Carol after she arrived, in recovering the
situation, restoring customer confidence and establishing
new successful supply routes.
The Group is disappointed to report a further deterioration
in the deficit within the Company’s defined benefit pension
scheme, now standing at £6.8m, before related deferred
tax asset, under FRS17 at 31 December 2002 and 91% 
of Minimum Funding Requirement at 1 March 2003. The
scheme has been closed to new members. The Directors
of the Group and the trustees of the fund are seeking
advice on how to tackle this problem, common to many 
UK companies. 
The Board expects 2003 to be a year of consolidation 
in Garments and of strategic change in Textiles.
Noel Jervis
Chairman
11 April 2003
We have worked hard to develop
strong relationships with customers
and suppliers alike, and are proud
to work with some of the UK’s
leading retailers.
