 Sherwood Group plc
04
Annual report and accounts 2002
Chief Executive’s statement
Chief Executive’s
statement
The Group’s design 
and product innovation,
quality and reliability 
keeps us at the forefront 
of retail buyer decisions.
The Group has a very
strong team supporting 
the Boards’ future
objectives.
creativity
and style
I was delighted to be offered the position of Group Chief
Executive and to re establish my partnership with Noel
Jervis having worked with him first at Courtaulds Textiles
plc and subsequently at Wolsey Ltd. Starting in mid
November 2002 my early days were spent assessing the
management structure within the Garment business and
recovering speedily the situation caused by management
disruption at Halle and the associated breakdown of the
relationship with its main supplier. 
I am pleased to report that much of the damage has now
been repaired. However, the Group’s profit before tax and 
net exceptional income of £1.5m in 2002 was achieved
after incurring £0.45m of one-off airfreight costs and
customer compensation payments in respect of the Halle
business. Furthermore, a fall in sales, albeit perhaps only
temporary, is likely to be experienced in 2003 as a result 
of a rival business set up by some of the division’s former 
employees and the supplier. 
My assessment of the management structure within the
Garment business identified a number of gaps. Each
operating activity now has a Managing or Commercial
Director, soon to be strengthened by the appointment of 
a Sourcing Director who will bring with him substantial
global sourcing experience. I now believe the Group has 
a very strong team supporting the Board’s future objectives.
The Garment operations achieved similar volumes to the
previous year but sales were reduced by continued price
deflation. More intense retailer competition, fuelled partly 
by the success of discount clothing retailers and the
supermarket chains increasing their clothing offer, remain
key factors. To this end, price negotiations are a key feature
of any buyer discussions and this puts the Group under
further pressure to source more competitively. Despite this,
the Group’s design and product innovation, quality and
reliability keeps us at the forefront of retail buyer decisions. 
Peanuts     United Feature Syndicate, Inc.
Licensed by PSL
C Sherwood Group plc
05
Annual report and accounts 2002
Chief Executive’s statement
Halle (nightwear) proved resilient and increased sales
despite management disruption. This growth was
supported by the popularity of its character-inspired offering
(Disney and Snoopy) whilst retaining a strong handwriting 
in traditional garments. In 2003 the product offering is
broader, facilitated by a move to sourcing from China. 
In addition this will enable an expansion of the customer
base, shorten lead times and improve competitiveness.
Debfor (swimwear) enjoyed a healthy summer season 
with sales in line with expectations. In 2003 swimwear
accessories will be added to the product portfolio in the
development of a ‘holiday shop’ concept. In the short-term
however the current Middle East conflict may be expected
to curtail Spring 2003 sales and a difficult period ahead 
is forecast. 
Sherwood (lingerie) has been in decline over a number of
years but is now already benefiting from a comprehensive
management restructuring. Together with the appointment
of a new Commercial Director, progress has been made 
to strengthen all other functions including design,
merchandising and new sourcing routes. It is expected 
that this re-energised team will, given time, recreate the
business that Sherwood once enjoyed in this product category. 
The Lepel intimate apparel and swimwear brand built on 
its success in 2001 to become a recognised value brand 
in High Street stores and leading independents. The new
swimwear ranges have been particularly successful and
further progress is expected in 2003 with the development
of an additional customer base.
In the Textile operations, Birkin International’s failure to win
the major Marks and Spencer lace contract in each of the
last two years had an adverse impact on lace sales and 
the associated dyeing and finishing activities. In addition 
the intimate apparel customers’ manufacturing base has
continued to migrate to lower cost countries, as a 
response to the demand for lower prices and as the textile
infrastructure in these developing countries permits more
local self-sufficiency. This has led to lower sales which 
when combined with increasingly uneconomical production
runs has meant that manufacturing capacity was not fully
utilised during the year and a trading loss was incurred. 
The Group is still actively seeking a strategic solution to
these problems. Meanwhile the Textile activities continue 
to generate a positive cash flow.
I recognise that there continues to be a climate of change
within the retail garment industry. It is the Board’s aim to
create an environment within the Sherwood Group that 
is able to respond to the ever-increasing demands upon 
the Group’s resources. I plan to spend a great deal of my
time with the Group’s customers. 
I look forward immensely to the opportunities which lie
ahead and thank all the Group’s staff for the initial support
they have provided.
Carol Duncumb
Group Chief Executive
11 April 2003
Peanuts     United Feature Syndicate, Inc.
Licensed by PSL
C Peanuts     United Feature Syndicate, Inc.
Licensed by PSL
C
We are placing particular and
increasing emphasis on creativity
and style. This is strongly reflected
in our developing relationship with 
key character licensors, as well 
as our designs for Lepel lingerie
and swimwear.
