 14 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2007
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
The successful completion of the
2006 Refinancing has significantly
strengthened our financial position
and increased our freedom to resolve
our operational issues.
In my second report to you as Chief Executive of Invensys, I am
pleased to report that the turnaround at Invensys is continuing and
that we are making good progress in transforming Invensys into a
high performing, sustainable and cohesive business. The successful
completion of the 2006 Refinancing has significantly strengthened
our financial position and increased our freedom to resolve our
operational issues.
Looking across our businesses
Process Systems
The very good results from Process Systems reflect the continuing
high levels of spend within our core global markets of oil and gas,
petrochemicals and power generation. The improved technical
offering, strengthened in the year by the launch of the groundbreaking
InFusion™ enterprise control system, and our large installed base has
enabled us to again become a leading player in the process
automation market.
Eurotherm
The restructuring at Eurotherm is aimed at capturing the growth
in Eastern Europe and Asia, targeting four vertical markets with
engineered solutions and at reducing our cost base by outsourcing
component manufacture and relocating assembly to Poland and
China. Although the pace of this restructuring has been slower than
anticipated, it is not expected to materially affect the final outcome
of the programme.
APV
The much improved performance by APV during the year
demonstrates the tremendous efforts of its new management team
in creating a turnaround. We have improved the profitability of
our project business by improving execution and rejecting contracts
which are low margin or have high execution risk. At the same time
we have been addressing our large installed base and have increased
revenue significantly from products, spares and services sales.
This rebalancing of the business has created a much more stable
platform going forward.
Rail Group
Rail Group continues to perform well in its core markets in the UK,
Iberia and the US where significant, stable infrastructure spending
provides a solid earnings base. We have also been successful in
Ulf Henriksson
Chief Executive
Having joined as
Chief Operating Officer
in May 2004, Ulf was
then appointed Chief
Executive in July 2005. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2007 15
These results demonstrate the progress that we have
made and the Board believes that we are now at a stage
where we can begin to take Invensys on to the next phase
of our journey.
gaining business in export markets, particularly in Asia Pacific. Going
forward, our priority is to expand our geographical footprint and we
are currently investing in the exploration of opportunities in several
new jurisdictions including Latin America, North Africa, the new
member states of the European Union, India and other regions
of Asia Pacific.
Controls
Controls has made good progress in addressing the many market
and operational issues that have affected its performance in recent
years. We have improved the quality of our management information
which has enabled us to better assess the performance of each
product group and to facilitate the identification of remedial actions.
Controls has improved product quality and on-time delivery to
levels that have enabled us to have a normal conversation with our
customers. We have exited some product lines that have become
commoditised but we have gained in areas where we can show that
our engineering skills benefit the customer. For example, we have
been able to implement pricing actions that are now recouping
some of the margin lost through the significant raw material price
increases over the last three years.
Strategy for the future
Our priorities during the past three years have been about stopping
our decline and starting to build a foundation for growth. Our
primary focus has been upon the operational and cash performance
of our businesses and improving our capital structure and therefore
reducing the limitations the old structure placed upon our actions
and value. These results demonstrate the progress that we have
made and the Board believes that we are now at a stage where
we can begin to take Invensys on to the next phase of our journey.
This phase of our journey towards becoming a high performing,
sustainable and cohesive business consists of four separate strategic
initiatives:
• increasing our investments in each of our businesses to deliver
more value-added innovative engineering solutions and services
with the objective of giving our customers greater efficiency and
success;
• leveraging our capabilities for greater value. Where natural and
appropriate, we will share technology and market capabilities
across businesses;
• creating greater efficiency within our support functions under
leadership and guidance from the corporate centre. Our first
project is within our finance function through co-sourcing with
a third party provider; and
• improving our capital structure, with the objective of removing
our remaining limitations so that we can improve our ability to
achieve our growth potential.
Corporate social responsibility (CSR)
As a member of the FTSE4Good Index, we remain committed to
ensuring that our people act in an ethical and proper manner, that
we safeguard the welfare of our employees, customers, suppliers and
others by having an effective health and safety culture, that we make
a positive contribution to the communities in which we operate and
that we reduce to a minimum the environmental consequences of
our activities. In each of these areas, we have made good progress
during the year and the CSR report contained in this document
provides both qualitative and, particularly in the case of health,
safety and the environment, detailed quantitative descriptions of
our achievements.
Employees
In an engineering Group like Invensys, the most important asset that
we have is our people. During the past year, I have been struck by
the immense enthusiasm and commitment shown by everyone
to the recent achievements of Invensys and the opportunities for
personal progression available within the Group. Our improved
performance is allowing us to increase our investment in people,
particularly in learning and development, to ensure that we support
them to achieve their own aspirations as well as enabling them to
increase their own contributions to the Group’s success.
Ulf Henriksson
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s statement
