 14 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
•  leveraged capabilities and expertise across the Group. In 
particular we are seeing much closer collaboration between 
Process Systems and Rail Group in developing leading-edge 
information and platform technologies;
•  made great progress leveraging our global support functions, 
including global procurement, IT and co-sourcing of our 
finance function. We have begun to see the efficiency benefits 
of these actions and have initiated a similar process within the 
human resources function; 
•  become effectively debt free through the redemption of the 
High Yield Bonds in March and repayment of the Term Loans 
in May. We also have a significant cash position. This, together 
with an expected refinancing of our banking facilities, will 
remove any remaining significant limitations which may inhibit 
the Group’s ability to achieve its growth potential; 
•  grown in emerging markets, so that 22% of our revenue is now 
generated in these markets; and
•  achieved safety performance standards at world-class levels 
relative to our peers, as a result of our intense focus on best 
practice and robust process.
Looking	 to	 the	 future
Our objective is to become a technology and controls company 
providing intelligent solutions to customers on a global basis 
across a broad range of industries. 
We create value for our customers by offering efficiency, safety 
and ease of use. To differentiate ourselves from our competitors, 
we drive this value through information and optimisation 
technology and engineered content. 
The global macroeconomic demand in which we operate remains 
generally favourable with overall global GdP growth, urbanisation 
in developing countries, the demand for increased productivity 
and efficiency and the need for sustainability. However, we are 
alert to the effects of the problems in the mature financial and 
consumer cyclical industries and the possibility that these effects 
could spread deeper into the global economy and other industries. 
The progress that we have made over the past few years gives us the 
agility and resilience to better respond to these market challenges.
Our clear objective is to become a 
technology and controls company 
providing intelligent solutions to 
customers on a global basis across  
a broad range of industries.
I am pleased to report that, during the past year, we have 
continued to transform the financial position of Invensys through 
a combination of further improved operating performances across 
the businesses, the disposals of non‑ core activities for good value 
and the successful negotiation of the PPP settlement (as described 
in the Rail Group business review). 
Today we have around £200 million of cash and, following the 
redemption of the remaining High Yield Bonds and the repayment 
of the Term Loans, we are effectively debt free. We are looking to 
further modify our financing facilities in due course to ensure that 
we have arrangements in place that support the implementation 
of our business strategy.
We are also making good progress on our journey to become an 
unquestioned leader in our markets by unlocking the potential 
of both ourselves and our customers. We are building a strong 
foundation for growth with high performing processes, human 
and execution capabilities and a cohesive business for our 
customers, employees and shareholders in an ever-changing 
environment. Our clear objective is to become a technology and 
controls company providing intelligent solutions to customers on 
a global basis across a broad range of industries. 
O ur 	 achie v e m e n t s
This year we have made structural improvements that deliver 
a deep and enduring impact for our businesses. We have:
•  improved performance in delivery and quality essential to 
securing our current customer base;
•  increased our investments in research and development and 
built on our ability to provide engineering and technology 
solutions and services to our customers;
C HIEF	 Ex ECU TIVE ’ S	 S T A TEME n T
U lf 	 Henri ksson
Chief Executive Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 15
O u r 	 b u s ine s s e s:
Process Systems
Operating in generally infrastructure and long cycle markets 
such as oil and gas, power, mining and petrochemicals, Process 
Systems is positioning itself for growth through becoming a 
technology solution provider and using real-time information 
to give businesses unprecedented enterprise-wide visibility and 
control. The ease of use of our solutions together with increased 
efficiency, productivity and safety through better decision-making 
and through optimisation of their enterprise operations processes 
provide increased demand and value. 
Eurotherm
We have seen good progress in our vertical and geographic 
strategy to capture growth in the life sciences, glass and heat 
treatment markets and in the Eastern European and Asia Pacific 
regions. The migration of manufacturing from Western Europe 
both into the supply chain and to new facilities in Poland and 
China has largely been completed. 
Rail Group
Our core markets of the UK, Iberia and Australia have continued 
to perform well with high levels of activity underpinned by 
significant expenditures on rail infrastructure improvements 
and expansion. Much of our future growth will come from our 
success in export markets and we are making good progress in 
developing our relationships within our target markets of Latin 
America, North Africa, the Middle East, India and the rest of Asia. 
We are focussing resource on winning in these export markets, 
and continuing to develop our integrated technology to become 
a transportation solution provider. 
Controls
Our aim with Controls is at least to maintain the level of operating 
profit despite any adverse effects on revenue of changes in its 
markets. By disposing of a number of its non-core businesses and 
focussing upon more resilient markets such as the mid to higher 
end of the global appliance sector, we achieved our immediate 
aims for the year and are confident that we can maintain the 
positive performance trend during the coming year. 
Cor por a te 	 s ocia l 	 re s pon s i b il i t y 	 ( C S R )
As a member of the FTSE4Good Index, we remain committed to 
ensuring that we act in a socially responsible fashion. We have 
continued to make good progress during the year and our CSR 
report, contained in this document, provides both qualitative and, 
particularly in the case of health, safety and the environment, 
detailed quantitative descriptions of our achievements. Our CO2 
emissions have been reduced for the third straight year, we have 
consumed less energy overall and have significantly increased the 
level of recycling of both hazardous and non-hazardous waste. 
I am particularly pleased that our safety performance is now at 
world‑ class levels relative to our peers. 
Our people
I am delighted that we have very good people across each 
of our businesses who are engaged in forming our future as 
unquestioned leaders in our markets. Their commitment, 
capabilities and achievements are reflected in our improved 
performance and I would like to thank each of them for their 
contributions to this success. In return, we are increasing our 
investment in learning and development so that everyone can 
achieve their own potential as well as helping them to play their 
part in the successful future of Invensys.
Our values
during the year we launched an Invensys-wide vision and mission 
to act as a guide in meeting our business strategies and objectives. 
Around 1,000 Invensys people took part in workshops and 
meetings helping us develop our values of innovation, agility, 
integrity, meritocracy and courage.
We have used these values as the basis of this Annual report so 
that shareholders can see how they are being adopted across 
the Group.
U lf 	 H e n r i k sso n
Chief Executive
Today we have around £200 million of 
cash and, following the redemption of 
the remaining High Yield Bonds and the 
repayment of the Term Loans, we are 
effectively debt free.
