 12 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
reached a series of agreements following extensive negotiations 
over several months whereby we have been adequately 
compensated for a reduction in the scope of our work. 
We continued to shape our portfolio of businesses with the 
disposals of some non-core businesses and made the first 
acquisition by the Group for several years. We sold APV, our 
food manufacturing project and equipment business, to SPX 
Corporation for £250 million and also three of our smaller 
businesses, namely Safety and Reversing Valves in Controls 
and the North American logistics business Burco in Rail Group. 
Building upon the success of the 2006 Refinancing, the financial 
transformation of the Group has also continued. By March 2008, 
we had built up sufficient cash resources to enable us to redeem 
the remaining High Yield Bonds, further reducing our finance 
costs. Since the year end, we have repaid the Term Loans, which 
has left us effectively debt free, and we have a significant cash 
position.
Our strategy, which was explained in last year’s Annual report, is 
unchanged and the Board is pleased with the success being made 
in its implementation. We now have a strong financial position 
with significant net cash on the balance sheet, a considerable 
change from the heavily indebted position that I inherited when 
I became Chairman in 2003. 
We have continued to improve our environmental, health and 
safety performance across the Group as demonstrated by the 
quantitative disclosures in the corporate social responsibility 
report on page 35. The Board is committed to ensuring that 
Invensys acts as a good corporate citizen across the world. 
We have improved our operational and 
financial performance, with each of our 
three major businesses now reporting 
double digit operating margins.
I am very pleased to report that Invensys has continued the 
considerable progress of recent years with another year of high 
activity and significant achievement. We have improved our 
operational and financial performance, with each of our three 
major businesses now reporting double digit operating margins. 
We have also substantially improved the strength of our balance 
sheet through a good operating cash performance and disposals 
of some non‑ core businesses for good value, and are now in the 
advantageous position of having net cash on the balance sheet. 
A	 year	 of	 fur ther	 progress
In each of the five years that I have been Chairman, Invensys 
has been an extremely busy place, demonstrating the level of 
demands that we place upon our people in order to achieve a 
turnaround in our performance, and this year was no exception.
We produced another increase in profits with each of our 
three major businesses, Process Systems, Rail Group and 
Controls, reporting good improvements. I am particularly 
pleased that we were able to deal effectively with the problems 
created by the entrance into administration of Metronet, the 
company responsible for two thirds of London Underground’s 
infrastructure, which raised concerns over the largest contract the 
Group has ever signed. As explained in the Rail Group review, we 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Marti n 	 Jay
Chairman Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 13
F u t u re 	 re p o r t in g
The redemption of the remaining High Yield Bonds on 17 March 
2008 has removed the requirement to announce detailed 
quarterly results. The Group will continue to publish detailed half 
year and full year results announcements and, instead of first and 
third quarter results announcements, the Board has decided to 
publish interim management statements. These statements will 
update shareholders on any significant changes to the operational 
performance or financial position of Invensys, and the first such 
statement will be issued prior to the opening of business on Friday, 
18 July 2008, the day of our 2008 Annual General Meeting.
T h e 	 B o a rd 	 a nd 	 our 	 pe op le
There have been no changes to the membership of the Board 
since the publication of last year’s Annual report and accounts. 
The Board and some of its committees have had to meet on 
several ad hoc occasions during the year in addition to our 
scheduled meetings and I would like to thank each member 
of the Board for their commitment. 
I have informed the other members of the Board that I am 
intending to retire as Chairman and a director of the Company 
at the 2009 Annual General Meeting. By then, I will have been 
Chairman for six years and I believe that it will be an appropriate 
time to hand over to my successor. I have made my intentions clear 
now so that the Board can put in place a thorough and orderly 
process to appoint a new Chairman and ensure that a smooth 
transfer of responsibilities can take place.
I would like to thank everyone across Invensys for their contribution 
to another very successful year. The achievements of the year would 
not have happened without their considerable efforts.
D ivide nd
The Group is taking the necessary actions to enable the Board, at 
the end of 2008/09 and in suitable circumstances, to recommend 
the payment of a dividend. For the year ended 31 March 2008, the 
Board is not recommending the payment of a dividend (2007: nil).
O u t lo o k
Overall, we expect the Group to make further progress in the new 
financial year. The global energy and infrastructure markets for 
Process Systems and Rail Group remain strong and we expect them 
to continue to grow. At Controls, we expect at least to maintain 
its operating profit and cash flow performance despite continued 
softness in some of its markets. 
Mar tin	 Jay
Chairman
Overall, we expect the Group to make 
further progress in the new financial year.
