 10  |  Invensys plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chief Executive’s Statement
I am pleased to be able to report that we achieved a robust 
performance during the past year against the background of 
one of the most difficult global economies in decades.
We had strong order intake, which is testimony to our 
customers’ belief in our ability to deliver projects and solutions. 
We had strong cash flow across the Group, which has further 
strengthened our financial position; we are debt free with  
£309 million of net cash and deposits on the balance sheet. 
We have managed our pension assets and liabilities to reduce 
volatility and have agreed the future funding schedule with 
the Trustee of the UK Main Pension Scheme with no change 
to our annual payments. We have undertaken restructuring 
where there has been a need to realign capacity and improve 
productivity. This overall performance has given the Board 
confidence to recommend the resumption of dividend 
payments to shareholders. 
Strategy 
Our vision is to become the unquestioned leader in our 
markets. Our mission is to unlock our potential so that  
we can in turn help our customers to unlock theirs.
We believe that the key to maximising both our customers’  
and our own potential lies in an open approach. This belief 
shapes the way we work, our mindset and approach, and the 
solutions, technologies and products that we develop with  
our customers.
We are committed to collaboration, responsiveness and 
flawless execution.
As an unquestioned leader in providing industries with open 
thinking and open technologies, Invensys provides customers 
with the ability to respond more quickly to an ever-changing 
environment with confidence.
The development of standardised control systems technology 
reflects the movement away from customised equipment 
with proprietary operating systems towards platforms with 
open operating systems. In parallel, industry-standard 
communication specifications have been created to foster 
interoperability and create flexibility in system architectures 
and component selection. Open architectures also create the 
ability to draw information in real time from disparate parts of 
operations control and business support systems to enable 
higher levels of automation and optimisation.
We recognise the importance of these trends to our customers 
and support open architectures in our businesses. For 
example, Wonderware software was created specifically 
to allow broad levels of system integration and data 
communications. It is now in use in around one third of the 
world’s manufacturing plants and increasingly in infrastructure 
operations. The application of communication and integration 
technologies is constantly being expanded and refined, 
including their use across our other businesses. Currently we 
are introducing these technologies into the rail industry to 
support advancements for infrastructure management and 
signalling control rooms.
Social, economic and environmental trends reflect the 
increasing need to run capital-intensive operations such as 
manufacturing, mining, power generation and transportation 
more efficiently. Our businesses have adopted the position 
that we need to work with our customers on their terms. We 
open our thinking to new approaches, collaborate with our 
customers and open the door to new value propositions 
for our customers. This open-minded approach to solving 
customer business issues resulted in an impressive new order 
performance over the past year. 
Outside its core markets, Invensys Rail is developing its 
business in a number of other countries around the world. 
Rather than being a completely global player, we have 
selected a number of key markets in which to develop new 
regional businesses, and to continue our successful strategy of 
developing strong market share where we have an advantage 
in meeting the needs of customers. We have recently placed 
new business development teams into South East Asia, the 
Middle East, India, Germany and Latin America and we are 
already seeing success with several new orders. At the same 
time, we are driving a strong platform and component strategy 
through our development planning. We are developing new 
technical solutions that will facilitate the efficient operation of 
railways, in addition to the fundamental aspect of maintaining 
safety. In particular, we are investing in communications-based 
train control, intelligent operational control systems, European 
Railway Traffic Management System (ERTMS) and unified 
interlocking offerings, all of which we see as important pillars 
that will support our customers in the years to come. 
At Invensys Controls, we have taken aggressive action to 
realign capacity and resources following the declines in its 
consumer cyclical markets while continuing our intense focus 
on improving productivity and generating cash. We are 
Ulf Henriksson 
Chief Executive
We believe that the key to maximising 
both our customers’ and our own 
potential lies in an open approach. 
This belief shapes the way we work, 
our mindset and approach, and the 
solutions, technologies and products 
that we develop with our customers.  Invensys plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2009  |  11
concentrating on emerging markets, geographic expansion  
of our heating segment and leveraging our global engineering 
capabilities to support our customers’ new product 
introductions. These actions taken together position us  
well to capitalise upon an eventual market recovery. 
Creation of Invensys Operations Management
The decision has been taken to integrate our three industrial 
automation businesses (Invensys Process Systems, 
Wonderware and Eurotherm) into a single division, Invensys 
Operations Management. This decision has been driven by 
the convergence of technologies that enable our customers 
to optimise their entire operations, the opportunity to create 
a continuum of solutions and services for the whole industrial 
market and the potential for cost savings from common sales 
and marketing, delivery and back office functions.
We have identified significant growth opportunities from  
more effective coverage of our customer base and attractive 
savings from using common approaches to business 
processes. Some integration activities began earlier in 
the year as a result of common research and development 
requirements between the businesses and the opportunity 
to eliminate redundant infrastructure costs. Throughout the 
remainder of the current year, additional integration will be 
carried out; however, we do not intend to make substantial 
changes to the business strategy, products, services and  
levels of support for our customers. We see this integration  
as a natural evolutionary step building upon the successes 
that we have already achieved with our strategy of becoming a 
solutions and services provider. We will be reporting Invensys 
Operations Management as a single division going forward.
Our industrial customers face an expanding set of challenges 
that go beyond the need for increased productivity. They face 
new pressures related to globalisation, shifting demographics, 
environmental issues, energy efficiency and greater complexity 
in the supply chain. They are seeking new ways to optimise 
their operations across their production assets, systems and 
processes. By bringing together our three businesses, we can 
harness technology, domain expertise and service delivery 
capability to provide agile real-time operations capability 
through integrated solutions backed by our deep industry 
knowledge. Our combined portfolio enables us to provide 
“right sized” solutions and delivery mechanisms that meet 
customers’ needs most effectively.
Branding
During the year, we carried out a review of our branding to 
ensure that our visual identity and brand structure reflect 
an open approach and provide differentiation from our 
competitors.
This review has resulted in the new logo and visual identity 
which you see within this document and which more readily 
reflect our status as a technology company, following the 
reclassification by FTSE in June 2008. It also achieves the aim 
of creating the visible differentiation from our competitors 
that we required. Just as importantly, we have simplified our 
multi-tier brand structure to create greater emphasis upon the 
Invensys name. As we gradually implement the new branding 
across the Group’s businesses over the next year, our people 
will become Invensys people and our renowned brands like 
Foxboro, Westinghouse and Wonderware, which are currently 
business names, will become product brands. We want our 
people to embrace our Invensys-wide aspiration to apply an 
open approach to unlocking potential.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
Invensys is committed to supporting the principles of 
economic success, environmental stewardship and social 
responsibility. We believe that by acting as a responsible 
corporate citizen, we will not only minimise business risk, 
but also enhance our reputation as a business partner. Our 
CSR report, which starts on page 22, contains more detailed 
descriptions of our achievements. I am pleased to announce 
that we have exceeded our targets for reductions of key 
performance indicators (KPIs) of consumption and waste 
production. I am also pleased that our injury and illness 
incident frequency rates have been reduced again since  
last year.
Invensys is producing a Sustainability Report, which will 
be available for download from our website. Also available 
from our website will be our revised and updated Code of 
Conduct, which summarises our goals and demonstrates our 
commitment to legal and ethical compliance. We believe that 
our performance and our values are things to be proud of and 
should be reported clearly and transparently, which is why we 
have made these documents available.
Our people
In 2008 we listened to our employees through an Invensys-
wide Employee Engagement Survey. We have reviewed and 
collated the results of the Survey, and I am pleased to report 
that our employees’ engagement with Invensys rates highly 
in comparison to other companies which have been through 
significant changes. Based on the findings of the Survey, our 
leaders are developing action plans to ensure that the voice 
of our people is heard. More information on our Employee 
Engagement Survey can be found in our CSR report.
Our people are a great strength, and I am delighted that we 
have such good people across Invensys who are dedicating 
their skills and time to help Invensys to succeed. Their 
commitment and achievements have helped us to deliver a 
robust performance at a time of considerable challenges, and  
I would like to thank them all for their contribution. We will 
strive to give our employees every reasonable encouragement 
and incentive to succeed.
Ulf Henriksson 
Chief Executive
