 10 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Chairman’s Statement 
Dear shareholder
In my first statement to you since my appointment as Chairman 
on 17 July 2009, I am pleased to report that Invensys has 
continued to make progress during the most difficult economic 
conditions in decades. Despite the recession, we improved 
our operating performance, further strengthened our financial 
position and have continued to invest significantly in research 
and development, restructuring, and sales and marketing so 
that our divisions are well prepared for the recovery. It is a credit 
to Ulf Henriksson and his management team that Invensys has 
managed to bridge the recession and is now in a very strong 
position to benefit as we begin to see economic recovery in 
some regions and industries. 
I have had the opportunity to visit many of our facilities around 
the world and meet many of our people. I have also, along with 
the rest of the Board, reviewed our three-year strategic plan 
for the Group and the divisions and our corporate governance 
procedures. I am pleased to confirm that Invensys has the 
highest standards of governance, backed up by our recently 
revised Code of Conduct, and we have the right plans in place 
to continue along our path of growth.
As the world emerges from recession, considerable emphasis 
is going to be placed upon efficient use of resources, especially 
energy and water, and on safe, environmentally friendly 
transportation of both people and freight. Each of our three 
divisions is able to make a significant contribution in these areas, 
and I am confident that Invensys will be a leader in its markets. 
 “ As the world emerges from 
recession, considerable 
emphasis is going to be 
placed upon efficient use of 
resources, especially energy 
and water, and on safe, 
environmentally friendly 
transportation of both 
people and freight.”
Sir Nigel Rudd
Chairman Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
The Board
There have been several changes to the Board during the 
past year, with the appointment of three non-executive directors 
with significant experience of running major international 
companies, particularly in the technology sector. 
Francesco Caio and Dr Martin Read joined the Board as 
non-executive directors on 18 July 2009. Francesco was 
formerly Chief Executive of Cable & Wireless and Martin 
was formerly Chief Executive of LogicaCMG. Paul Lester, 
Chief Executive of VT Group, was appointed to the Board 
on 1 January 2010. These three new directors, together with 
Bay Green, Michael Parker and Pat Zito, give us the breadth 
of talent to support the executive team in their efforts.
Our new Chief Financial Officer, Wayne Edmunds, joined  
the Board on 1 June 2009. He also comes from a technology 
background, having spent 17 years with Lucent Technologies.
I would like to thank the two directors who retired at last year’s 
Annual General Meeting for their contribution to Invensys over 
several years: my predecessor as Chairman, Martin Jay and 
Jean-Claude Guez, formerly Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee.
Dividend
After the payment last year of a dividend to shareholders for 
the first time since 2003, the Board has decided to continue 
with its progressive dividend policy for the year, reflecting 
the Board’s confidence in the future of the Group. 
Following the payment of an interim dividend of 1.0 pence 
per share, the Board has recommended the payment of a 
final cash dividend for the year of 2.0 pence per share which, 
subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting on 28 July 2010, will be paid on 6 August 2010 to 
shareholders on the register at 25 June 2010. 
This brings the total dividends payable in respect of the 
year ended 31 March 2010 to 3.0 pence per share, twice 
the payment of 1.5 pence per share in respect of last year.
Outlook
Looking forward, we are positive about the outlook based 
upon our large order book and our current view of economic 
conditions. We expect the Group to continue to deliver 
improved performance in the current year, with the phasing 
of profit similar to last year.
At Invensys Operations Management, we expect revenue 
growth due to our large order book in combination with the 
anticipated market improvements later in the year. 
At Invensys Rail, we expect continued revenue growth due to 
our large order book. However, margins are likely to be slightly 
lower due to an increased proportion of revenue coming from 
large contracts in the early stages of execution. 
At Invensys Controls, we expect the market to recover, especially 
in North America, and as volumes increase we expect margins 
to improve. 
Corporate costs will increase by £8 million as we invest for the 
next phase of the Group’s development, particularly in our 
capabilities to execute bolt-on acquisitions and in 
business development.
We anticipate that exceptional restructuring charges in the 
current year will be around 1.5% of Group revenue.
Sir Nigel Rudd
Chairman
