 12 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Chief Executive’s Statement
We improved our performance and grew our order book, and  
at the same time increased our investment in the Group in spite 
of the worst economic climate in decades. We have established 
a strong foundation and this makes us confident for the future. 
I am particularly pleased with our ongoing success in winning 
new large contracts in emerging markets, which will underpin 
our future growth. Around 40% of our order book at the year 
end was represented by emerging markets.
Our success was based upon being prepared for an economic 
downturn and being agile in responding to it. 
We disposed of and reduced our exposure to those businesses 
and markets that we felt were likely to be most affected by a 
recession, such as our commercial building systems and the 
low-end appliance market. 
• We invested in research and development to produce 
software, products and solutions that created a clear point  
of differentiation from the competition, with an emphasis  
on helping our customers to improve their performance. 
• We worked with our customers for our mutual benefit to 
manage the potential impact of the volatility and 
unpredictability of commodity prices. 
• We tailored our capital investment and restructuring to 
maximise our productivity gains in preparation for the 
recession. 
Our success is also a consequence of the business model that 
we have had in place for the Group since 2005. This has given 
us a Group that is better able to perform across the economic 
cycle and which maximises value through: 
• Leveraging our global diversity — we deliver products and 
services to around 180 countries. 
• Leveraging our industrial range — we sell to all industries 
except finance and insurance. 
• Unlocking our people’s ability to make it happen. 
Together these actions created the foundation that enabled  
us to bridge the recession.
Strategy
The demand for our products and services is driven by the need 
for productivity as a result of: economic growth, urbanisation 
and population growth; the need to reduce waste and to 
increase efficiency; and the desire to respond quickly to an 
environment that is changing faster than ever.
Our strategy has remained broadly unchanged for five years, 
though we are agile in changing the way that we implement it 
to adapt to market conditions. As a Group, we have based our 
strategy upon five principles:
1. Being a thought leader when we have a seat at the table 
where customers make decisions by giving them a different 
point of view and solutions to enable their success. 
 “ When each of us has an 
open mind, and is personally 
responsible and committed, 
we become a better company 
and each employee becomes 
even more competitive.”
Ulf Henriksson
Chief Executive Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13
2. Being a technology leader through the development of 
industry-leading technologies for our customers that enable 
them to improve their businesses and operations with 
excellence in service, engineering and delivery.
3. Being focussed on achieving higher margins by targeting 
faster-growing countries and market segments with a high 
return on operating capital employed. These include countries 
like China, India and Brazil and industries like nuclear power 
generation, rail infrastructure expansion in emerging markets, 
and mid- and high-end appliances.
4. Being global, diverse, open and agile in our approach, 
thinking and abilities so that we unlock the potential of  
our people, our large installed base, our technology, our 
long-term customer relationships and our customers’ need 
for global support.
5. Being a value-driven company by living the Invensys Values.
Each of our divisions applies these principles to its own strategy.
All this is supported by making bolt-on acquisitions that deliver 
new technologies or market access and by leveraging our 
global capabilities of research and development, global supply 
chain, continuous improvement, legal, human resources and 
finance across our divisions.
Performance
Our divisions
At Invensys Operations Management, we have made progress 
in executing our strategy to help our customers to be more 
efficient and empowered. Throughout the world, we are winning 
large and complex oil and gas and power projects. In May 2010, 
we were awarded a contract for the control and safety solutions 
for two further nuclear reactors in China following the contract 
for four reactors in December 2008. Although we continued to 
experience a decline in demand, particularly in North America 
and Europe, the order pipeline of prospects is growing. 
Operating margins returned to double digits in the second half.
At Invensys Rail, we have made progress in executing our 
strategy to help customers increase capacity at the same time 
as lowering their cost of ownership. We continue to improve our 
market position in core regional markets and are expanding into 
new targeted regional markets — for example in the resignalling 
of three metro lines in São Paulo — due to our technology and 
execution capabilities. The pipeline of order prospects is large 
and I am looking forward to continued success as a leading 
technology provider for the rail and transportation industry.
At Invensys Controls, we have executed our strategy well. 
Despite a reduction in revenue, profitability has improved due 
to new product launches, restructuring and investment. We are 
seeing signs that the overall consumer market is beginning to 
recover, especially in the United States, and the operational 
gearing within the business will further help performance as 
volumes recover.
The Group 
We also had another good financial performance with 
operating cash conversion of 107%. Our balance sheet remains 
strong, which is reflected in the investment grade rating from 
Standard & Poor’s.
Looking forward, we are positive about the outlook based 
upon our large order book and our current view of economic 
conditions. We expect the Group to continue to deliver improved 
performance in the current year, with the phasing of profit 
similar to last year.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
Invensys is committed to supporting the principles of economic 
success, environmental stewardship, diversity and social 
responsibility. 
We believe that by acting as a responsible global corporate 
citizen, we will not only minimise business risk but also enhance 
our reputation as a business partner. 
Our CSR report, which starts on page 24, contains detailed 
descriptions of our achievements. We have also published our 
second Sustainability Report, which is available for download 
from our website. 
Our people
I am delighted with the commitment and excited by the 
capabilities of our people. The recession has made us stronger 
and has tested our ability to make things happen with limited 
resources and support. To put it another way, our people do 
what they say they will do.
Many customers speak with me about our people in the 
context of lifelong relationships through good and bad times 
but with a shared commitment to success. 
When each of us has an open mind, and is personally responsible 
and committed, we become a better company and each 
employee becomes even more competitive. I stand for giving 
every employee opportunities to become even more capable, so 
that they have more freedom to choose the life they want to have.
The Invensys Values and our focus on our customers bring us 
together and create a framework for success. I believe that our 
people and our culture are our strengths.
Ulf Henriksson
Chief Executive
