  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011
I am delighted to be leading Invensys in 
the next stage of its development.
Having worked closely with our businesses 
over the past two years as Chief Financial 
Officer, it is clear to me that we have three 
strong divisions, each with management 
strength in depth and the ability to create 
significant growth and value. We are a 
global company operating in end markets 
which each have strong growth prospects.
We need to create a common theme 
for execution across the Group. Execution 
means having a discipline for linking 
people, strategy and operations to create 
sustainable value. To that end, we have 
decided to move away from an integrated 
operating model, with centralised 
functions and matrix management, towards 
a holding company model where divisional 
management has greater control and 
responsibility for their operations. 
We will be concentrating upon a number 
of important areas:
• Continuing to win further greenfield 
projects in emerging markets to 
enlarge our installed base and provide 
opportunities for additional sales. We 
have demonstrated that our technology 
is well-suited for large, complex solutions 
and our unique ability to team with 
global partners offers our customers 
distinctive value.
• Building a larger footprint in regions 
and industries with higher growth 
expectations such as Asia and the 
nuclear power generating industry.
• Continuing to invest in the development 
of our key technology platforms to our 
competitive advantage in key areas.
• Using our strong balance sheet to 
add new capabilities to our portfolio 
or additional market presence in 
strategically important regions 
or sectors.
• Having reached provisional agreement 
on the triennial review with the trustees 
of our UK Main Pension Scheme that 
there is no change to the deficit funding 
contribution schedule, either in terms of 
duration or amount of payments, we will 
continue to keep our legacy pension 
issues under review.
Chief Executive’s Statement
“ I like to describe our strategy in simple terms as being based upon 
using our distinctive technologies and delivery capabilities to build 
global market share and increase shareholder value.”
Wayne Edmunds, Chief Executive
Revenue (£m)
£2,486m
Revenue was £2,486 million 
(2010: £2,243 million), up 11% 
(up 9% at CER)
Operating profit (£m)
£262m
Operating profit was £262 million 
(2010: £248 million), up 6% (up 5% 
at CER) Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.invensys.com | 15
Overview
Performance highlights
Overall, the Group produced another good 
performance with revenue and operating 
profit up 9% and 5% respectively at CER 
and underlying earnings per share up 48% 
to 19.8 pence per share (2010: 13.4 pence 
per share).
Invensys Operations Management had a 
strong order intake driven by a recovery in 
industrial capital expenditure in developed 
markets and the winning of further 
contracts to supply our control and safety 
systems for four additional Chinese nuclear 
reactors. Revenue growth was also strong 
mainly due to the ramp-up of activity on 
many of the large greenfield projects that 
we have won over the past two years. 
Operating margins returned to double 
digits for the year and our cash conversion 
was in line with our targets.
Invensys Rail reported a lower than 
expected order intake, which reflects 
the uneven nature of order intake in the 
industry and in particular the unexpected 
delay in the award of some larger contracts. 
However, the strength of its order book 
helped it to increase revenue by 9% at CER. 
Operating margins for the year reflected 
some provisions for additional costs on 
three mass transit contracts in the first half, 
partially offset by the benefit of risk register 
releases on contract completions in the 
second half. Cash conversion was adversely 
affected by the phasing of receipts from 
some customers.
Invensys Controls improved both revenue 
and operating profit despite some weaker 
than expected markets in the second half 
of the year, particularly for US appliances. 
It is clearly benefiting from the significant 
restructuring that has been implemented 
in recent years and it continues to reduce 
its cost base to ensure that this will drive 
profit growth as revenue recovers.
Our strategy
Our overall strategy remains unchanged 
but we will have an increased focus upon 
execution. I like to describe our strategy in 
simple terms as being based upon using 
our distinctive technologies and delivery 
capabilities to build global market share 
and increase shareholder value.
Across our businesses we have a number 
of core attributes that should enable us 
to grow faster than the competition:
• Distinctive technologies, including 
software and advanced applications.
• Strong delivery skills, in particular for 
large systems integration projects, 
which can be applied globally.
• A large installed base and exceptional 
customer relationships.
• A proven ability to be effective at 
business development, teaming and 
partnering, the combination of which 
enables us to take advantage of our 
market position.
• A strong balance sheet.
Our core markets remain robust
Each of our divisions is operating in 
industry verticals which have strong 
growth prospects:
• At Invensys Operations Management, 
our core markets of oil, gas and power 
have long-term structural growth due 
to the need for greenfield capacity in the 
developing world, especially India and 
China, and the potential for optimisation 
and efficiency of plant operations, 
particularly at brownfield sites in the 
developed world.
• At Invensys Rail, the global rail 
infrastructure market has long-term 
structural growth due to industrialisation 
and urbanisation in the developing world 
together with capacity needs and 
pressure to reduce carbon footprints in 
the developed world.
• At Invensys Controls, our core markets 
of appliance, commercial and wholesale 
should grow due to the expected 
recovery in Europe and North America 
and consumer aspirations in the 
developing world.
In particular, China and India will 
be important markets for each of 
our divisions and we will be using our 
combined knowledge and experience 
from operating in these countries to 
improve our capabilities and to capture 
growth opportunities.
Mid-term growth catalysts
As part of linking our strategy to our 
execution capabilities, each of our divisions 
has identified mid-term growth catalysts 
on which they intend to focus:
• At Invensys Operations Management, 
the focus will continue to be on 
responding to the significant number 
of large contracts in emerging markets, 
including nuclear power. Advanced 
applications market demand also 
remains strong.
• At Invensys Rail, the global order 
pipeline for large complex rail schemes 
remains robust.
• At Invensys Controls, the opportunity 
to expand the commercial and wholesale 
businesses will allow growth and margin 
expansion.
• Each of the divisions has identified 
suitable bolt-on acquisitions to 
supplement their organic growth.
• We continue to invest in research 
and development to ensure we are 
at the technological forefront of each 
of our industries. 16 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
I intend to reinforce our commitment to 
supporting the principles of economic 
success, environmental stewardship, 
diversity and social responsibility. We have 
programmes in place across the Group to 
ensure that we act as a responsible global 
citizen and these are supported by our 
Code of Conduct which defines how each 
of us acts in our business life.
Our CSR report, which starts on page 28, 
contains a summary of our achievements 
and these are explained in more detail in 
our third Sustainability Report, which 
will be available for download from our 
website. I am especially pleased by the very 
low incidence of injuries to our employees; 
their health and safety remains the highest 
priority. During the year, there were a 
number of incidents of natural disasters 
and civil unrest around the world and our 
teams ensured that all Invensys people 
and their families who were affected 
were helped where needed.
Invensys people
I have inherited a very talented and 
committed group of professionals who 
drive our business on a day-to-day basis. 
We also have the strength in depth that 
will provide us with the flexibility and 
capability to deal effectively with inevitable 
challenges that will arise going forward. 
All of our people have contributed to our 
resilience through the worst recession 
in generations and together they have 
created the strong divisions and corporate 
centre that will drive future growth.
I would like to pay tribute to each of them 
for their efforts and thank them for helping 
to make Invensys what it is today. I look 
forward to working with them to create 
an even better Invensys.
Wayne Edmunds
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s Statement continued Business Review
Business Review
18 Financial Review
22 Financial Policies
23 Invensys Operations Management
25 Invensys Rail
27 Invensys Controls
28 Corporate Social Responsibility
32 Risks and Uncertainties
