  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chairman‘s Statement
“ At Invensys, we have three world class divisions and a management 
team to match. Our task for the future is to take our strong market 
positions, our excellent technology, our committed people and our 
financial strength, and create an even better future for Invensys and 
its shareholders.” 
 Sir Nigel Rudd, Chairman
Underlying EPS (p)
19.8p
Underlying EPS were 19.8p 
(2010: 13.4p), up 48%
Dividend (p)
4.0p
Recommended final dividend 
of 2.5p per share (2010: 2.0p); 
total dividends of 4.0p per 
share (2010: 3.0p)
Dear shareholder
I am pleased to report that Invensys 
produced another improvement in 
performance during the year ended 
31 March 2011. We increased revenue 
by 9% at CER to £2,486 million and 
operating profit before exceptional 
items by 5% at CER to £262 million.
Invensys Operations Management 
produced record results, clearly benefiting 
from its success in winning large greenfield 
projects in emerging markets, executing 
on its advanced applications strategy, and 
a strong recovery in industrial capital 
expenditure in developed countries. The 
global rail infrastructure markets remained 
strong; however, Invensys Rail experienced 
a small decline in profitability due to cost 
overruns on three mass transit contracts 
and its order intake was affected by the 
timing of the award of large contracts. 
Invensys Controls produced a performance 
broadly in line with last year despite 
revenue being held back by weaker than 
expected consumer markets, particularly 
in North America.
At Invensys, we have three world class 
divisions and a management team to 
match. Our task for the future is to take 
our strong market positions, our excellent 
technology, our committed people and 
our financial strength, and create an 
even better future for Invensys and its 
shareholders. As our new Chief Executive, 
Wayne Edmunds, elaborates upon in 
his statement on page 14, we have the 
businesses and plans to achieve this; 
it is now all about execution.
Dividend and dividend policy
The Board has recommended a final 
dividend of 2.5 pence per share, which 
brings the total dividends payable in 
respect of the year ended 31 March 2011 
to 4.0 pence per share, an increase of one 
third over the payments of 3.0 pence per 
share in respect of last year. Subject to 
approval by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting on 28 July 2011, the final 
dividend will be paid on 5 August 2011 
to shareholders on the register at 
24 June 2011. We have decided to 
introduce a dividend reinvestment plan 
(DRIP), beginning with this final dividend, 
which will enable shareholders to reinvest 
their dividends directly into Invensys 
shares. Details of the DRIP are contained 
in separate documentation mailed 
to shareholders. Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.invensys.com | 13
Overview
The Board’s dividend policy seeks to 
balance the income needs of shareholders 
with the needs of the Group to retain the 
resources and flexibility to enhance further 
our growth prospects. 
Accordingly, we remain committed to our 
progressive dividend policy with future 
dividend growth reflecting more closely 
the long-term sustainable trend in 
underlying earnings per share and free 
cash flow.
The Board
On 24 March 2011, the Board announced 
that Ulf Henriksson had stepped down as 
Chief Executive and as a director and that 
Wayne Edmunds, who had been Chief 
Financial Officer since 2009, had been 
appointed Chief Executive. David Thomas, 
who has held senior financial roles within 
the Group since 2002, was appointed 
Acting Chief Financial Officer and a 
permanent appointment will be made 
in due course after consideration of 
internal and external candidates.
With effect from 19 May 2011, Deena 
Mattar has been appointed to the Board 
as an additional non-executive director. 
She was formerly Group Finance Director 
of Kier Group plc. Deena joined Kier Group 
in 1998 as Finance Director of Kier National, 
having previously held senior positions at 
KPMG, and was appointed to the board 
as Group Finance Director in 2001. She is 
a chartered accountant and will join the 
Audit Committee.
Outlook
Invensys Operations Management 
continues to see improved demand across 
all regions, with increased industrial capital 
expenditure in North America and Europe 
and further building of new capacity 
elsewhere, especially in the oil and gas and 
power sectors in the Middle East and Asia. 
The global rail infrastructure market remains 
strong with several large projects, both 
greenfield and brownfield, currently being 
bid for by Invensys Rail across the world. 
Revenue growth will be supported by 
the large order book and margins are 
expected to remain in line with FY 2010/11’s 
reported outcome, reflecting ongoing 
bidding and development costs and further 
investment in developing a presence in 
emerging markets; in the medium term, we 
expect margins to be in the range of 15–17%. 
Invensys Controls’ major appliance 
customers are expecting modest growth 
in our major markets in North America and 
Europe and we expect to outperform the 
market due to new product introductions 
and market share increases. We will also be 
putting a greater focus upon higher-margin 
sectors such as wholesale and commercial. 
On a constant currency basis, we expect 
a year of further progress.
Sir Nigel Rudd 
Chairman
