 Chairman’s Statement
A year of signiﬁcant progress
 “Invensys has made signiﬁcant progress in a 
number of areas which will stand us in good stead 
for the future. Our divisions have each improved 
their market position and we have reinforced the 

Sir Nigel Rudd, Chairman
Underlying EPS (p)
13.4p


Dividend (p)
4.4p
Recommended ﬁnal dividend 



Dear Shareholder
During the past year, Invensys has made 
signiﬁcant progress in a number of 
areas which will stand us in good stead 
for the future. As our Chief Executive 
Wayne Edmunds explains in his 
statement on pages 8 to 9, our divisions 
have each improved their market 
position and we have reinforced the 
Group’s ﬁnancial stability with new 
£600 million ﬁve-year banking facilities 
and, as part of its triennial review, 
no change to the funding plan of 
the Invensys Pension Scheme (UK).
Wayne Edmunds has settled in well to his 
new role and his actions in strengthening 
the management team around him 

the executive team. Whilst the additional 
costs on a small number of contracts 
have adversely affected our overall 
performance, these should not detract 
from the signiﬁcant progress made in 
positioning our businesses for the future. 
I am particularly pleased that Invensys Rail 
has signiﬁcantly grown its order book and 
that Invensys Operations Management has 
seen excellent underlying order growth 
across each of its lines of business. Invensys 
Controls continues to perform well against 
the background of very difﬁcult market 
conditions in its appliance segment. Also 
each business is ensuring that it continues 
to meet market needs by investing in 
refreshing and updating many of our 
core technology platforms. 
06 Invensys plc Dividend and dividend policy
The Board has recommended a final
dividend of 2.75 pence per share, which
brings the total dividends payable in 
respect of the year ended 31 March 2012
to 4.4 pence per share (2011: 4.0 pence
per share), an increase of 10%. Subject to
approval by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting on 13 July 2012, the final
dividend will be paid on 3 August 2012 to
shareholders on the register at 22 June	
2012. A dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP)
is available for this final dividend, which 
will enable shareholders to reinvest their 
dividends directly into Invensys shares.
The Board’s dividend policy seeks to
balance the income needs of shareholders 
with the needs of the Group to retain the
resources and flexibility to enhance further
our growth prospects. In particular, the 
Board has taken into account the investment
required in working capital, particularly 
on large projects, and in research and
development, the opportunities to make 
bolt-on acquisitions to increase our 
technology base and market presence, 
and the need to retain flexibility should
an opportunity arise to reduce our 
pension liabilities. 
Accordingly we remain committed to our 
progressive dividend policy with future 
dividend growth reflecting more closely	
the long-term sustainable trend in 
underlying earnings per share and free 
cash flow.
The Board
On 19 May 2011, Deena Mattar was
appointed to the Board as a non-executive
director. She is a chartered accountant	
and was formerly Group Finance Director	
of Kier Group plc. Deena has joined the
Audit Committee.
On 28 July 2011, David Thomas was
appointed to the Board as Chief Financial
Officer. He had been Acting Chief Financial
Officer of the Group since 24 March 2011.
David joined Invensys in 2002 as Group
Controller, having previously been a senior 
partner in Ernst & Young LLP specialising
in long-term industrial contracting 
businesses and has held a number of 
senior roles at Invensys including CFO	
and CEO roles within the divisions. He is a 
member of the Auditing Practices Board.
On 29 November 2011, Victoria Hull
was appointed to the Board as an executive
director. She is the Group’s Chief Legal
Officer with responsibility for the 
management of legal, compliance and 
commercial risk across the Group. She	
joined Invensys in 2001, since when she
has been an integral member of the 
Group’s senior management team.	
The Board recognises the importance
and benefits of diversity and will continue 
to take this into account in our recruitment 
process whilst ensuring that candidates are 
selected on merit and ensuring there is an 
appropriate range and balance of skills, 
experience and background on the Board.	
Outlook
Invensys Operations Management markets 
remain buoyant and we expect our 
software and equipment lines of business 
to continue to perform well. Our systems 
business will benefit from its strong order 
book but growth in its operating margins 
will be moderated by the effects of the 
lower margin greenfield projects.
Invensys Rail had a very successful year in 
winning major projects in its core and new
markets and these orders will increasingly 
benefit revenue in the year as we begin to 
mobilise our project teams. Operating	
margins are expected to remain within 
our medium-term target range but are 
expected to be around 15% for next
year because we intend to take a more 
conservative view of profit recognition 
in the early stages of some of the large 
contracts in new markets.
Invensys Controls’ major appliance	
customers are expecting a year of more 
stable demand, particularly in North
America and Europe, and we expect 
continued success in commercial 
and wholesale.
Overall we are looking forward to a 
year of improving performances across 
our businesses.
Sir Nigel Rudd
Chairman
Group Financial Statements Overview Business Review Governance Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information
Invensys plc	Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2012	 www.invensys.com 07
