 Chief Executive’s Statement

 “We have three strong businesses with leading 
positions in industries with structural growth 
drivers and it is our clear focus to ensure that 
we capture the opportunities available to us 
to build shareholder value.”
Wayne Edmunds, Chief Executive
During the year, we made good progress 
with some signiﬁcant achievements 
that position us well for the future. 
In particular, we reorganised into lines 
of business within the divisions to 
increase focus on our industry-leading 
technologies and we are investing in 
enhancing many of our core technology 
platforms. We also grew the Invensys 
Rail order book signiﬁcantly and agreed 
the triennial review of the Invensys 
Pension Scheme (UK) with no change 
to the funding plan.

achievements positioning us well for the 



in both core and new markets.

achieved strong order momentum 
across each line of business without 
the beneﬁt of any new large greenﬁeld 
contract awards during the year.

much weaker than expected trading 
conditions in the appliance market in 


of business to bring additional emphasis 
upon our leading brands and 
technologies.

teams with several new appointments 
across the divisions.

in enhancing a number of our core 
technology platforms across the 
divisions.

review with the Trustees of the Invensys 

no change to the funding plan.

banking facilities to ensure we have 
the funding capacity to underpin our 
ﬁnancial position and support our 
future growth.
Orders (£m)
 £2,7 50m



Operating proﬁt (£m)
 £209 m



 “We ha
positio
driver
we ca
to bui
Wayne E
08 Invensys plc However it is disappointing that our 
profitability was reduced by £60 million
of additional costs arising from our 
nuclear projects in China within Invensys	
Operations Management and a handful 
of contracts within Invensys Rail’s Asia 
Pacific region. Since the announcement	
in January 2012, we have responded
by strengthening our procedures and 
management teams in a number of areas. 
We have three strong businesses with 
leading positions in industries with 
structural growth drivers and it is our 
clear focus to ensure that we capture the 
opportunities available to us to build 
shareholder value.
Our strategy
The world is changing at great speed with 
rapidly developing economies (RDEs) likely	
to overtake the developed world in terms 
of share of global GDP over the next
decade or so. Although the core of our 
overall strategy remains unchanged, we 
need to ensure that we continue to extend 
our success in RDEs as they become our
largest customer base.
Our core attributes support our strategy
Across our businesses we have a number 
of core attributes that position us well as 
the global economy develops, with the 
result that we should grow faster than the 
competition:
•	 We have distinctive technologies
including software and western standard 
safety systems which are attractive to 
RDE customers. We are also adapting	
a number of our offerings to meet many 
RDE needs for scalable and adaptable
products with features tailored to their 
markets, whilst maintaining effectiveness 
and safety.
•	 We have a large installed base with
exceptional customer relationships 
across both the developed world and 
RDEs.
•	 As we have responded to the project
issues in the year, we have strengthened 
our global delivery skills, in particular for 
large systems integration projects.
•	 We have proven our ability to be
effective at business development, 
teaming and partnering to provide 
comprehensive market access, as 
evidenced in particular by our major
contract wins in Invensys Rail.
•	 We have a strong balance sheet which
provides us with flexibility in managing
and financing our businesses and 
paying dividends to shareholders.
Our core markets remain robust
Each of our divisions is operating in 
industry verticals which have strong 
growth prospects:
•	 At Invensys Operations Management,	
our core markets of oil, gas and power 
have long-term structural growth 
prospects due to the need for greenfield 
capacity in the developing world, 
especially India and China, and the 
potential for optimisation and efficiency 
of plant operations, particularly at 
brownfield sites in the developed world.
•	 At Invensys Rail, the global rail
infrastructure market also has long-term 
structural growth prospects due to 
industrialisation and urbanisation in the 
developing world together with capacity 
needs and pressure to reduce carbon 
footprints in the developed world.
•	 At Invensys Controls, our core markets	
of appliance, commercial and wholesale 
are expected to grow due to a recovery 
in Europe and North America and
consumer aspirations in the developing 
world.
In particular, RDEs including China and
India are increasingly important markets 
for each of our divisions and we will be 
using our combined knowledge and 
experience from operating in these 
countries to improve our capabilities 
and to capture growth opportunities.
Performance highlights
Although many of the Group’s businesses
performed strongly with order growth in 
Invensys Operations Management and 
Invensys Rail providing visibility into next 
year, additional costs on a small number of 
contracts resulted in a reduction in profits 
compared to last year.
Invensys Operations Management had 
another year of strong order intake across 
each line of business despite the absence 
of any large greenfield project awards in
the year. The underlying rate of order 
increase was 11% at CER with orders in
systems up 7%, software up a record 20%
and equipment up 11%. Revenue growth
was also strong mainly due to the ramp-up 
of activity on many of the recently won 
large greenfield projects. However	
operating profit and margins were affected 
by the previously announced £40 million
additional costs on our nuclear projects	
in China.
Invensys Rail reported a near record 
order intake with the award of several 
large contracts in new markets. Revenue 
was broadly flat with good growth in
the UK and North America offset by an
anticipated reduction in Spain and delays
in mobilisation on some of the large new 
market contracts. Despite the previously	
announced £20 million additional costs,
operating margin was 15.0%.
Invensys Controls had to cope with an 
appliance market that was much weaker 
than had been expected at the start of 
the year, resulting in a decline in revenue 
and profit. However its wholesale and 
commercial lines of business held up 
much better to offset some of the 
declines in appliance. 
At the corporate centre, we have eliminated 
several previously group-wide functions 
and returned some responsibilities to the 
divisions, which has resulted in central 
costs being reduced by 17% at CER to
£38 million (2011: £46 million).
Wayne Edmunds
Chief Executive
Group Financial Statements Overview Business Review Governance Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information
Invensys plc	Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2012	 www.invensys.com 09
