 Chairman’s Statement 
A transformational year for Invensys
 “The past year was transformational for Invensys. 
Going forward, one of the major priorities of your 
Board will be to ensure that the investment of funds 
from the Invensys Rail disposal continues to build 
upon the signiﬁ cant increase in shareholder value 
that has already taken place.”
Sir Nigel Rudd, Chairman
Underlying EPS (p)
8.5p
Underlying EPS were 8.5p 
(2012: 5.3p), up 60%
Dividend (p)
4.6p
Recommended ﬁ nal dividend of 
2.85p per share (2012: 2.75p); 
total dividends of 4.6p per share 
(2012: 4.4p), up 5%
Dear Shareholder
The past year has undoubtedly been 
transformational for Invensys. 
Our decision to sell Invensys Rail to Siemens 
for £1,742 million followed a detailed strategic 
review that concluded that a disposal would 
be the best way of maximising value for 
shareholders. As a result, we have been able 
to deal with our legacy UK pension issues in 
a way that has been acceptable to our 
shareholders, the Trustee and the Pension 
Regulator. We will also be returning £625 
million of cash to shareholders and we will still 
retain substantial funds to invest in our more 
focused technology businesses both 
organically and through acquisitions. Going 
forward, one of the major priorities of your 
Board will be to ensure that the investment 
of these funds continues to build upon the 
signiﬁ cant increase in shareholder value that 
has already taken place.
06 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The Board
There were no changes to the membership 
of the Board during the year.
Francesco Caio and Pat Zito have informed 
the Board that they do not intend to seek 
re-election at the Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) and accordingly will be retiring from 
the Board at the close of that meeting. Given 
the smaller size of the Group following the 
disposal of Invensys Rail, we have decided 
that they will not be replaced and the future 
Board will now consist of the Chairman, three 
executive directors and ﬁ ve non-executive 
directors.
The Board would like to thank Francesco and 
Pat for their contributions to the Board and we 
wish them well for the future.
Our people
The achievements of the past year reﬂ ect the 
efforts of everyone at Invensys. Many were 
involved in the disposal of Invensys Rail and 
the subsequent reorganisation and all were 
responsible for ensuring that our daily 
business was not affected by these activities. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all 
of Invensys' people for contributing to such a 
transformational year.
Dividend and dividend policy
The Board has recommended a ﬁ nal dividend 
of 2.85 pence per share, amounting to 
£23 million, which brings the total dividends 
payable in respect of the year ended 31 March 
2013 to 4.6 pence per share (2012: 4.4 pence 
per share), an increase of 5%. The amount 
paid per share could increase dependent 
upon the share capital consolidation as 
detailed below.
If the return of cash to shareholders and 
subsequent share capital consolidation are 
approved by shareholders and take place as 
planned, the Board has recommended that 
the total amount of the ﬁ nal dividend will 
remain the same, £23 million, but will be paid 
on the smaller number of shares in issue 
resulting from the share consolidation. 
Therefore the amount paid per share would 
increase and details of these changes will be 
set out in the circular to shareholders to be 
issued regarding the return of cash.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the 
AGM on 25 July 2013, the ﬁ nal dividend will 
be  paid on 2 August 2013 to shareholders 
on  the register at 21 June 2013. A dividend 
reinvestment plan (DRIP) is available for this 
ﬁ nal dividend, which will enable shareholders 
to reinvest their dividends directly into 
Invensys  shares. 
The Board remains committed to a 
progressive dividend policy with future 
dividend growth reﬂ ecting the long-term 
sustainable trend in underlying earnings 
per  share and free cash ﬂ ow. 
Outlook
Looking ahead, we do not expect any 
signiﬁ cant changes to general market 
conditions in the near term but anticipate 
an improved performance due to continued 
growth in our higher-margin segments, 
especially Software, and the beneﬁ ts 
of the Group reorganisation.
We expect our Software segment to show 
good growth supported by our customers’ 
requirements for optimisation, efﬁ ciency 
and productivity. The Industrial Automation 
segment is likely to see continued strength in 
its brownﬁ eld revenue stream which will be 
offset by an anticipated decline in revenue 
from large greenﬁ eld projects such as China 
Nuclear; however, margins should improve 
due to the improved sales mix. Energy 
Controls is likely to be stable as management 
works to consolidate the range of businesses 
and drive market and technology synergies. 
Appliance is expected to see modest growth 
helped by somewhat improved conditions in 
North America.
Sir Nigel Rudd
Chairman
 15 May 2013
Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.invensys.com 07
Overview
