 Chief Executive’s Statement
A thoughtful and disciplined approach 
to investing
 “In order to give the market greater insight into the 
performances of our businesses and their value, we 
have now changed our operating model and ﬁ nancial 
reporting with the lines of business grouped into 
four new business segments – Software, Industrial 
Automation, Energy Controls and Appliance.”
Wayne Edmunds, Chief Executive
The past year was transformational for 
Invensys. The disposal of Invensys Rail 
for £1,742 million has enabled us to deal 
with our legacy UK pension issues, 
recommend a substantial return of cash 
to shareholders and provided us with 
signiﬁ cant funds to invest in our future. 
It has also allowed us to carry out a 
reorganisation of the Group, removing our  
previous divisional structure and 
providing signiﬁ cant cost savings of 
£25 million per annum by April 2014.
Invensys is now a focused supplier of industrial 
software, systems and control equipment, 
delivering state-of-the-art technologies to the 
world’s major industries. The lines of business 
structure we began to put in place last year has 
enabled us to concentrate upon those areas 
with the greatest opportunities for growth and 
proﬁ tability. We now have signiﬁ cant resources 
to invest in these businesses which we will do in 
a thoughtful and disciplined manner to enhance 
shareholder value.
Disposal of Invensys Rail
Following a strategic review which highlighted 
the likely consolidation in the global rail 
signalling market and the limited scope to 
increase the size of the Invensys Rail division, 
we decided to refocus the Group around 
our industrial software, systems and control 
equipment businesses and, accordingly, 
to dispose of Invensys Rail. 
Orders (£m)
 £1,700m
Orders were £1,700 million 
(2012: £1,759 million), 
down 3% (down 2% at CER)
Operating proﬁ t (£m)
 £131m
Operating proﬁ t was £131 million 
(2012: £93 million), 
up 41% (up 40% at CER)
08 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 On 28 November 2012, we announced 
that we had reached agreement to sell 
the business to Siemens for £1,7 42 million 
on a cash and debt free basis. That price 
represented an attractive value for the 
business and fully recognised Invensys Rail’s 
leading positions in long-term growth markets 
with returns ahead of its peers and well-
invested technology. The disposal was 
completed on 2 May 2013  and therefore the 
results of Invensys Rail have been included in 
discontinued operations with comparatives 
restated accordingly.
Following completion, a contribution of 
£400 million has been made to the UK 
Pension Scheme and a further payment of 
£225 million has been made into a reservoir 
trust. As a result of these payments, the 
previous deﬁ cit reduction payments of 
£40-47 million per annum have ceased and 
it  is anticipated that no further contributions 
will be payable into the Scheme for the 
foreseeable future. More details of the pension 
arrangements are contained in the Financial 
Review on page 26.
As previously announced, we now intend to 
return £625 million of cash to shareholders 
and information on the return of cash will be 
set out in a circular to shareholders which will 
be issued as soon as practicable. The return 
of cash is subject to the approval of Invensys 
shareholders at a General Meeting which is 
expected to take place in June 2013. It is 
intended that shareholders will be able to elect 
to receive their cash as income, capital or 
deferred capital or a combination of the three. 
Following the return of cash, we are proposing 
a share capital consolidation that, subject to 
market ﬂ uctuations, will result in the share 
price being returned to approximately the 
same level as before the return of cash. 
Reorganisation and revised business 
segment reporting
Following last year’s creation of individual 
lines of business within our divisions to bring 
additional focus upon our leading brands 
and technologies, the disposal of Invensys 
Rail  has enabled us to take the further step 
of removing our former divisional structure. 
This reorganisation will give rise to signiﬁ cant 
savings of around £25 million per annum by 
April 2014. 
As a result, we have changed our external 
reporting from 1 April 2013 to reﬂ ect the new 
basis on which information will be reported 
internally. We will group our lines of business 
into four new business segments. This 
grouping brings together businesses with 
similar economic characteristics, operating 
margins, market drivers and technologies as 
well as providing greater transparency as to 
the true value of our market-leading 
businesses:
• Software which consists of the software 
businesses previously within Invensys 
Operations Management and includes our 
Wonderware
®
, SimSci
TM
 and Avantis
®
 
brands.
• Industrial Automation which consists 
of the systems businesses of our Foxboro
®
 
distributed control systems (DCS) and 
Triconex
®
 safety systems with the addition 
of the Foxboro measurement and 
instrumentation products previously 
within  the equipment business of Invensys 
Operations Management.
• Energy Controls which consists of 
the Eurotherm
®
 and IMServ
®
 businesses 
previously included within the equipment 
business of Invensys Operations 
Management, together with the residential 
heating and commercial businesses that 
were formerly part of Invensys Controls.
• Appliance which consists of the Appliance 
controls line of business previously within 
Invensys Controls, together with the 
appliance replacement parts business 
formerly within Wholesale, also part of the 
former Invensys Controls.
Although the commentary on the past year’s 
performance contained in this Annual Report 
and Accounts is based upon the previous 
reporting structure, we will be using these 
new  business segments for future reporting. 
The past year ’s performance by new business 
segment, together with an estimate of the 
allocation of cost savings from the Group 
reorganisation is shown on page 23 in the 
Financial Review. 
Looking ahead
As a focused supplier of industrial software, 
systems and control equipment to the world’s 
major industries, we will be focusing our 
investment on growing those lines of business 
which offer attractive long-term growth 
prospects with high returns on investment 
and excellent cash conversion. In particular, 
we will focus on expanding the breadth 
and depth of our higher-margin software 
businesses, which represent a major engine 
of future growth.  
Our long-term sustainable growth will 
therefore be driven by maintaining and 
developing our leading technologies; 
focusing on project and commercial 
execution excellence; developing our portfolio 
through bolt-on acquisitions; supporting and 
expanding our customer base and growing 
our business in emerging markets.
Operationally and ﬁ nancially, Invensys is 
now well  placed to capitalise on markets 
with long-term structural growth prospects 
and deliver further value for shareholders.
Wayne Edmunds
Chief Executive
 15 May 2013
Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.invensys.com 09
Overview
