 Our UK building and facilities services
business, which focuses on designing and
installing mechanical and electrical services
in buildings, is a leading player in its field.
Our construction services business 
is one of the largest in the UK.
We also have a number of businesses that
have a good platform for growth as their
markets consolidate:
Our Earth and Environmental business is
establishing an important franchise across
the Americas and is moving to Europe.
Our international pharmaceuticals business
has established a good client base and is
expanding from its traditional UK base 
into North America. It also has the
potential to expand in Continental Europe.
We have a growing position in the UK nuclear
and defence sectors and in European
telecommunications. 
Client opportunities
The spread of our business presents us
with a real opportunity. We have many
clients who are only aware of part of what
we do. The potential within our client base 
is truly significant. 
We have specific programmes aimed 
at tapping this potential, such as our
Strategic Relationship Management 
and asset care programmes and are
already seeing this investment turn into
successful cross-selling and contractual
wins. In particular, we are seeing the
benefits of the full acquisition of SPIE as
business is transferred both ways across
the Channel.
During 2004, we will also invest more time
and resources in systems that allow us to
share knowledge and experience and in
specific business development initiatives
aimed at extending our relationships with
existing clients.
Building our reputation
We are taking up an increasingly important
position on the world stage. In 2004, for
example, we will be working alongside
our partner, Fluor, to help reconstruct Iraq’s
war-torn infrastructure. 
Whilst we have always done this sort 
of important work, we have not always
communicated it actively . In 2004 and beyond,
will be putting more intensive effort 
into building our brand, to communicate
the value within AMEC in a clear and
compelling way.
11 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  4:00 PM  Page 11
