 Chairman’ s
Statement
An international group
focused on project
management and services
“There is still huge
unrealised value 
in AMEC”
Jock Green-Armytage
Chairman
26 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  6:29 AM  Page 26 27 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
As I write this review, I have been in 
the post of AMEC chairman for a mere
two months, though I have been on the
AMEC board since 1996. I must therefore
start by thanking my predecessor, Sydney
Gillibrand, who retired in January. Sydney,
who became chairman of AMEC in 1997,
helped steer the company through some
major changes, including the acquisitions
of AGRA and SPIE. He will be much missed,
both personally and professionally.
George Payne, Commercial Director,
retired from the board in March 2003, and
David Robson, responsible for UK and
Asia Pacific operations, retired at the 
end of July 2003 after 40 years’ service. 
I would like to thank both George and
David for the enormous contribution they
have made to AMEC over the years, and 
I wish them well in their retirement.
Another important change at AMEC 
during the year was the appointment 
of Carlos Riva as executive director
responsible for our Americas business
and AMEC Group Limited in the UK.
Carlos brings outstanding commercial
experience from his role as Chief Executive
Officer of Intergen, the Shell-Bechtel
power joint-venture, and his position
across the UK and the Americas 
will help us bring these businesses 
closer together .
Project management and services
His appointment, together with some 
other senior changes at the operating
level, marks the end of a phase of
substantial change and restructuring 
for AMEC. Over the last decade, AMEC
has been transformed from a largely UK-
based traditional construction company to
an international group focused on project
management and services, able to attract
and retain clients at the highest level,
from the US and UK government through
the oil and gas majors to cities and
communities worldwide.
We are still something of a well-kept
secret. Few people recognise the scope 
or scale of our enterprise – from delivering
customised light rail solutions for clients
from Bordeaux to Caracas, to helping
reconstruct the Pentagon after 9/11, 
and creating some of the world’s largest
oil and gas facilities. There is still huge
unrealised value in this company – in 
the potential of its skills, experience and
clients. Few companies in the world can do
what we do and people are beginning to
see us as a real force to be reckoned with.
Two-thirds of profit from 
Services and Investments
We are also continuing to evolve towards
our goal of being a services company.
Last year, we moved even further forward
in terms of exiting businesses with poor
quality earnings and investing in areas
where we can add real value. As a result,
two-thirds of our total operating profit 
is now generated from Services and
Investments activities.
We are, today, a financially robust, major
company, employing 45,000 people in over
40 countries worldwide, with an enviable
client list and the trust of governments
and blue-chip corporations. The potential
is significant and I believe that our results
demonstrate that we are on track to deliver
against that potential.
Growth in earnings was resumed last
year . Pre-tax profits of £112.5 million 
are up seven per cent and were in line
with our expectations. Proposed dividends
for the year are increased by five per 
cent to 10.5 pence per share, reflecting
our confidence in the future. The outlook
for 2004 is still in line with our previous
expectations.
The last few years have been difficult for
many companies but, as signs of recovery
emerge, I feel confident that AMEC’s highly
skilled and dedicated people will grasp
the opportunity to build on our strengths,
expand our service, deepen our client
relationships and create value for all 
our stakeholders.
Jock Green-Armytage
Chairman
11 March 2004
Proposed dividends
are increased by 5%
to 10.5p per share
5
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  6:29 AM  Page 27
