 iomart Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Introduction
I am pleased once more to report on another excellent year for iomart. We have increased our revenues and profits both organically 
and through acquisition as we continue to deliver a widening range of cloud computing solutions.
Our revenues in the year were £55.6m, an increase of 29% over the previous year and our adjusted EBITDA of £23.6m showed a 43% 
increase over the previous year. 
We continue to believe in the long term opportunity for iomart as IT spending moves towards the ‘cloud’, as networks and connectivity 
expand and mobility increases. Our vision remains to be the best in the UK at the delivery of compute, storage and network in the 
cloud in a seamless, efficient and scalable way.
Market
The market continues to grow and evolve. All the trends I have spoken about in recent years remain intact.
One is the increasingly mobile world which we inhabit. Many of us have multiple devices that need to connect to data residing in 
datacentres, the totality of which effectively define the ‘cloud’.
The second is the growth in faster and more reliable connectivity, making it easier to access and operate in the cloud.
The third is the inevitable growth in the volume of data being created which needs to be stored and managed securely. 
These three overarching trends are interlinked, driving each other forward, and are set to continue growing for many years to come.
The core of our strategy is to offer all three main layers of cloud, ie network, compute and storage from resilient secure infrastructure 
through a range of ever more sophisticated control panels.
As business cycles in the cloud arena become more apparent and as we learn more about long term customer behaviour we will 
continue to develop our products to ensure we offer what the customer wants at the right price, on demand and in line with their 
growing and changing needs. This requires us to be at the leading edge of cloud technologies.
The tools and technologies used to deliver these services are constantly evolving and we continue to invest to ensure we are at the 
forefront of this evolution. It is important that as we grow bigger we continue to invest in the automation required to ensure we 
can continue to scale the business in a well thought through and planned way. There is a lot of ongoing development in network 
technology, in the compute and virtualisation layer and in the storage layer as the big technology vendors evolve their own solutions 
for a future in the cloud. We have strong and growing relationships with all our technology partners and we work hard to ensure we 
are aware of, and are following, all the relevant technology roadmaps. 
There are many IT companies who now sell ‘cloud’ services. This is more of an opportunity than a threat as we see a future where 
specialist service providers will provide wholesale cloud products to the market. iomart is well positioned to be a leading provider of 
such products.
To date it has mainly been the web-facing elements of infrastructure that have been outsourced to the cloud and the back-office 
workload continues to be handled “on premise”. Most of this back-office infrastructure is bought in the same way as it was 15 years 
ago. We believe this will change and we can already see the early adopters starting to move to the cloud. This defines the ‘dripping 
roast’ nature of the market opportunity and as I have been saying for the last five years, it has a long, long way to go.
iomart is at the forefront of this transformational shift and I expect the cloud opportunity to continue for many years to come.
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer's Report
14 iomart Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Acquisitions
We again augmented our organic growth through the acquisition of three operations during the year. In September 2013 we acquired 
Redstation Limited (“Redstation”), Backup Technology Holdings Limited (“BTL”) and Open Minded Solutions Limited (“Open Minded”). 
All three have proven to be good additions to the Group and have now been integrated into the business. We continue to look for 
businesses that fit our acquisition criteria with a view to making further acquisitions in the coming year.
Operational Review
Whilst all of our activities involve the provision of services from common infrastructure we are organised into two operating segments.
Hosting
Our Hosting segment, which now includes Redstation and BTL, continued to perform well over the year.
We provide a wide range of managed hosting services to both SMEs and corporate customers.  All our solutions are delivered from our 
network of datacentres located throughout the UK. The more complex managed hosting solutions are delivered by iomart Hosting and 
customers typically pay for these services on a monthly basis on contracts ranging between one and three years in length. We address 
the dedicated physical server market through our RapidSwitch and Redstation operations largely through online marketing. Melbourne 
delivers complex managed hosting solutions and provides us with a strong presence in the North West of England with a particular 
emphasis on the creative sector. BTL provides enterprise class cloud backup and business continuity services. 
We have made a substantial investment in our Maidenhead datacentre which has increased our overall capacity substantially and in 
addition we acquired additional datacentre space in Portsmouth as a consequence of the acquisition of Redstation.
Further investment has been made in our network to make use of the dark fibre we put in place last year with our Manchester operation 
now fully connected and we expect to integrate our Portsmouth facility into our network over the course of the current financial year. 
Revenues in this segment have grown by 40% to £44.7m (2013: £32.0m) partly as a result of the continued organic growth and in part 
due to acquisitions.
Easyspace
The Easyspace segment, which now includes Open Minded, has performed well over the year. 
Our activities within this segment provide a range of products to the micro and SME markets including domain names, shared, 
dedicated and virtual servers and email services.
There has been a significant change to the domain name market which began late in the year. There are now substantially more domain 
suffixes available and more continue to be added on a daily basis. We expect Easyspace to benefit from this new market opportunity.
As anticipated revenues of £11.0m (2013: £11.1m) have remained around the same level as in the previous year, delivering strong 
levels of cash for the Group.
 
Current trading and outlook
Trading since the year end remains encouraging and in line with our expectations.
We continue to be well placed to deliver an ever wider range of cloud services to our increasing customer base. With our growing 
reputation and ongoing investment in leading edge technologies, alongside our own development skills, we are well positioned for 
further significant growth.
I look forward, once again, with confidence to the year ahead.
Angus MacSween
Chief Executive Officer
27 May 2014
Strategic Report. Chief Executive Officer's Report
15
