 iomart Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Chairman's Statement
13
I am delighted to report on another very good year for your Group. We continue to make excellent progress as we execute on our 
combined strategy of both growing our own business and acquiring others and our reputation as one of the UK’s leading cloud 
computing companies continues to develop.
We have again enjoyed a substantial increase in profitability over the year, driven both by organic and acquisitive growth. Over the 
last five years we have made eleven acquisitions in total and two of those we made this year, Redstation and Backup Technology are 
the largest to date. All are performing as expected and have been integrated into iomart’s operations. As a result of these acquisitions 
we increased our datacentre estate with the addition of a datacentre in Portsmouth and we now have datacentres in eight locations 
throughout the UK to support the delivery of our cloud solutions. We appreciate the continued support shown by the Bank of Scotland 
through the provision of additional loan facilities to help fund our acquisition activity.
All of this progress is a result of a great deal of hard work by our executives and staff and I thank them all on behalf of the Board and 
the shareholders for their efforts over the year.
We have a commitment to a progressive dividend policy as our profitability and cash generation grows. This year the Board is proposing 
to pay a final dividend of 1.75p per share on 2 September 2014 to shareholders on the register on 15 August 2014, representing an 
increase of 25% over the dividend last year. We have decided that we will continue to offer shareholders the option to participate in 
a Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) as an alternative to receiving cash. Details of the DRIP scheme will be distributed with the annual 
accounts in due course. 
With the high level of revenue visibility we enjoy, we have begun the 2015 financial year in a strong position. I look forward to another 
exciting year of growth and look ahead with considerable confidence.
Ian Ritchie
Chairman
27 May 2014
Strategic Report
