 Chairman’ s statement
A world leader in technical services
and project management
“We are beginning
to see our strategy
translate into real
financial benefit”
At the end of my first full financial year in
the post of AMEC chairman, I am pleased
to report solid progress across all of our
three business segments, together with
signs of stronger growth coming through
in future years. 
This was a significant year for AMEC –
not because of any noticeable changes,
for indeed this was a year in which
we did not make any major acquisitions
or substantial changes to our business.
But it was significant because it marked
the successful end of a period of strategic
change and, more importantly, the
recognition and first fruits of that strategy.
24 AMEC plc annual report 2004 At the end of 2004, we were re-classified
as a Support Services company. This
change of stock market sector reflected
the success of our strategy, pursued in
previous years, of migrating AMEC away
from traditional construction. And we are
beginning to see that strategy translate
into real financial benefit.
Another significant change that came at
the end of 2004 was the re-segmentation
of our business, which highlights the
important and often unrecognised fact that
Oil and Gas now generates one third of
AMEC’s total operating profit. This business
is a strong companion to the solid and
predictable Engineering and Technical
Services business – our largest area 
of activity.
The new segmentation also revealed more
clearly the strength of our Project Solutions
business. Project work often has a bad
name – but if you choose carefully, as we
always seek to do, you can build a portfolio
that will release excellent value over time.
Today, our Project Solutions activities –
which include our investments in PPP,
Developments and Wind Energy, are
coming into their own – and are poised
to deliver growth well into the future.
So, overall, it was a year in which AMEC 
did not make any large acquisitions or
other strategic changes. We stuck to our
three main areas of activity, enhancing 
our Engineering and Technical Services
and Oil and Gas businesses with modest
acquisitions. 
I am pleased to report a record pre-tax
profit of £118.1 million, up 5.0 per cent,
and in line with our expectations. Proposed
dividends for the year are increased by
4.8 per cent to 11.0 pence (2003: 10.5 pence)
and the outlook for 2005 remains in line
with our earlier expectations. 
In January 2005, our placing of new ordinary
shares was extremely well received – raising
net proceeds of £88 million to support our
increased programme of investments.
I am delighted to welcome to the board
Peter Byrom and Tim Faithfull, who were
appointed as non-executive directors in
February 2005. Their wealth of international
knowledge and business experience,
particularly in business development
and the oil and gas market, will make a
valuable contribution as AMEC continues
to build its portfolio of project management
and services activities.
We are in good shape and, as we move
through 2005, feel comfortable with the
outlook for our three businesses. I remain
confident that AMEC’s highly skilled and
dedicated people will grasp the opportunity
to build on our strengths, expand our
service, deepen our client relationships
and create value for all our stakeholders.
Jock Green-Armytage
Chairman
10 March 2005
AMEC plc annual report 2004 25
