 S Y Brikho
Chief	executive
AMEC	now 	has 	a clear vision	and 	 strategy
 4 AMEC plc annual report 2006 Chief executive’s review  www.amec.com Chief executive’s review AMEC plc annual report 2006 5
Chief executive’ s review
2006	has 	been 	a 	year 	of 	considerable 	change 	for 	AMEC. 	Since 	my	 appointment	as 	chief 	executive 	in 	October 	we 	have 	wasted 	no 	time 	in	 streamlining	our 	businesses, 	strengthening 	our 	position 	in 	core 	markets	 and	building 	a 	firm 	foundation. 	We 	are 	now 	in 	a 	much 	stronger 	position	 than	we 	were 	a 	year 	ago 	and 	well 	on 	the 	way 	to 	creating 	a 	more 	focused	 and	profitable 	business 	for 	the 	future.	 Creating a leaner , fitter business
Our	first 	priority 	at 	AMEC 	has 	been 	to 	create 	a 	leaner 	and 	more 	efficient	 business.	To 	do 	this, 	we 	have 	introduced 	a 	major 	cultural 	change 	programme	 known	as 	STEP 	Change, 	with 	a 	focus 	on 	significantly 	reducing 	our 	costs.	 This	was 	well 	underway 	in 	December 	2006 	when 	a 	cost 	savings 	target 	of	 £100	million 	was 	announced. 	Progress 	has 	been 	more 	successful 	than 	we	 anticipated,	with 	all 	of 	us 	who 	work 	for 	the 	company 	taking 	responsibility 	for	 driving	the 	programme 	forward. 	We 	have 	now 	identified 	an 	additional 	£12 	million 	 of	savings, 	involving 	many 	initiatives 	such 	as 	aligning 	our 	benefits 	programme	 with	peers 	and 	reducing 	our 	corporate 	costs. 	This 	will 	deliver 	significant	 benefits	of 	around 	£40 	million 	in 	recurring 	net 	benefits 	from 	2008 	onwards.
4155 AMEC_front_06_LH_CS2.indd   4 4/4/07   09:15:46 The	focus 	of 	any 	organisation 	must 	be 	clear 	if 	it 	hopes 	to 	progress 	and 	grow.	 As	a 	result, 	at 	the 	end 	of 	2006 	we 	decided 	our 	focus 	would 	be 	on 	the 	energy	 and	process 	markets 	and 	that 	non-core 	businesses 	in 	Built 	Environment	 would	therefore 	be 	sold. 	We 	have 	already 	successfully 	sold 	the 	rail 	business,	 received	over 	40 	expressions 	of 	interest 	for 	the 	remaining 	businesses ,	and 	we	 expect	the 	sale 	of 	them 	to 	be 	completed 	during 	2007 .	 As	part 	of 	the 	transformation 	of 	AMEC, 	we 	have 	had 	to 	manage 	certain 	issues	 that	have 	prevented 	us 	from 	achieving 	our 	full 	potential, 	including 	the 	legacy	 projects	that 	have 	involved 	litigation 	claims. 	We 	addressed 	this 	issue 	as	 a	matter 	of 	urgency, 	reviewing 	all 	major 	disputes, 	establishing 	clear	 responsibility	for 	the 	management 	of 	the 	legacy 	issues 	and 	adopting 	a 	strategy	 to	settle 	where 	reasonable 	to 	do 	so. 	In 	addition, 	risk 	management 	processes	 have	been 	strengthened.	 A	strong 	balance 	sheet 	is 	always 	important 	and 	following 	the 	sale 	of	 AMEC	SPIE 	in 	July 	2006, 	we 	expect 	to 	have 	£250 	million 	of 	average 	net 	cash	 available	in 	2007 , 	up 	to 	£100 	million 	of 	which 	is 	being 	returned 	to 	shareholders	 in	a 	share 	buy 	back 	programme. 	Conversion 	of 	profit 	to 	cash 	has 	also	 improved	considerably.
Recent successes 
In	2006, 	we 	profited 	from 	successes 	in 	our 	core 	markets 	such 	as 	oil 	sands,	 mining	and 	oil 	and 	gas. 	These 	included 	a 	major 	joint 	venture 	contract 	for 	the	 upgrade	of 	overhead 	power 	lines 	across 	western 	England 	and 	Wales 	for	 National	Grid 	and 	a 	contract 	with 	BG 	Group 	to 	support 	all 	of 	BG’s 	upstream	 natural	gas 	assets 	and 	manage 	the 	development 	of 	the 	Maria 	brownfield 	gas	 project	in 	the 	North 	Sea. 	We 	also 	improved 	the 	market 	position 	of 	our 	Earth	 and	Environmental 	business 	with 	the 	award 	of 	a 	multi-year 	contract 	for 	the	 US	Air 	Force.	 Chief executive’s review AMEC plc annual report 2006 5
We	remain 	fully 	committed 	to 	a 	sustainable 	approach 	in 	all 	that 	we 	do,	 and	our 	success 	has 	been 	reflected 	with 	AMEC 	being 	awarded 	the 	number	 one	position 	in 	the 	2006 	Dow 	Jones 	Sustainability 	Index. 	This 	was 	for 	both	 the	World 	and 	European 	sustainability 	indices 	within 	the 	support 	services	 sector	and 	was 	the 	third 	year 	in 	succession 	we 	have 	achieved 	this.	 AMEC’ s vision for the future
All	the 	work 	we 	are 	doing 	is 	focused 	on 	achieving 	our 	goal 	of 	becoming 	a 	leading	 supplier	of 	high 	value 	consultancy, 	engineering 	and 	project 	management	 services	within 	the 	global 	energy 	and 	industrial 	process 	industries.	 The	next 	stage 	in 	the 	development 	and 	growth 	of 	AMEC 	is 	to 	focus 	on 	the	 achievement	of 	operational 	excellence. 	This 	will 	be 	by 	strengthening 	our	 client	relationships, 	engaging 	to 	a 	much 	greater 	degree 	with 	our 	key 	customers	 and	by 	creating 	simpler 	and 	more 	robust 	management 	processes. 	Everyone	 within	AMEC 	is 	very 	clear 	about 	what 	they 	as 	individuals 	need 	to 	do 	to 	deliver	 the	targets 	we 	have 	set 	for 	the 	business. 	Their 	commitment 	means 	we 	will	 continue	to 	deliver 	on 	 our	promises 	to 	put 	the 	business 	in 	order , 	to 	dispose 	of	 the	non-core 	businesses ,	to 	deliver 	STEP 	Change 	and 	achieve 	targeted 	margin	 improvements.	By 	doing 	so, 	we 	are 	positioning 	ourselves 	as 	an 	organisation	 that	is 	leaner , 	more 	focused 	and 	profitable 	and 	a 	leader 	in 	our 	chosen 	fields.	 14	March 	2007
4155 AMEC_front_06_LH_CS2.indd   5 4/4/07   09:15:47
