 04 Maelor plc annual report and ﬁnancial statements 2007
”
Our ﬁnancial performance this year is much improved with the Company reaching 
proﬁtability in the second half of the year, resulting from an outstanding 53% revenue 
growth. Our cash position has also strengthened and margins have been 
substantially improved.
“
Chairman’s statement
Geoff McMillan
I am pleased to present the results for the past ﬁnancial year, a year 
of signiﬁcant achievements for Maelor. Under the leadership of our 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Tim Wright, the new management team has 
worked to transform the Company into a proﬁtable business with 
a focus on late stage specialist hospital medicines.
In my statement in the 2005–06 annual report I noted that for 
Maelor to accelerate its growth we needed to succeed in marketing 
core products in our own right and in partnering non-core products. 
In the year ended March 2007 we achieved both of these objectives 
with a threefold increase in sales of Volplex and the exploitation 
of our micelle technology in partnership with Plethora Solutions 
Holdings plc (Plethora). In addition, we have further expanded 
our portfolio of critical care products with the addition of AquiHex 
and ISOplex.
Our ﬁnancial performance this year is much improved with the 
Company reaching break-even in the second half of the year, resulting 
from an outstanding 53% revenue growth. Our cash position has 
also strengthened and margins have been substantially improved.
Acquisition
Since the year end, we have delivered a transforming, earnings 
enhancing acquisition, which has made us proﬁtable and built a strong 
platform for growth. Acorus is a successful specialist pharmaceuticals 
and medical devices company, which we acquired for a total 
consideration of £13.0m. The initial cash consideration was satisﬁed 
by the issue to institutional investors of 80,000,000 new ordinary 
shares of 10p each, which raised £8.0m and was oversubscribed.
Acorus is signiﬁcantly proﬁtable and growing with a portfolio 
of assets primarily focused in critical care and neurology. It was 
established in 2000 and has been built as a virtual company; thus 
ensuring the speed and success of our integration process to date.
_1_MAE_front.indd   4 03/08/2007   09:59:54  Maelor plc annual report and ﬁnancial statements 2007 05
Outlook
Trading since the period end is in line with expectations 
and the integration of Acorus is on schedule.
The existing business is now performing well. The acquisition of Acorus, 
with its portfolio of marketed products, will make us signiﬁcantly 
proﬁtable creating a strong platform upon which to grow the business 
both organically and through further acquisitions. The Board would 
like to thank the Maelor team for its efforts and achievements during 
the year and it looks to the future with conﬁdence.
Geoff McMillan
Non-executive Chairman
summary
BUILDING A LATE STAGE 
SPECIALIST HOSPITAL 
MEDICINES BUSINESS.
MUCH IMPROVED 
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE.
TRANSFORMING ACQUISITION 
SINCE YEAR END.
STRONG PLATFORM 
FOR ORGANIC AND 
ACQUISITIVE GROWTH.
 53%
GROWTH IN REVENUE
£8.0million
RAISED TO ACQUIRE ACORUS
£2.0million
BANK FACILITY FOR FURTHER EXPANSION
_1_MAE_front.indd   5 03/08/2007   10:00:39
