 06 Maelor plc annual report and ﬁnancial statements 2007
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review
Tim Wright
This year has been transformational for Maelor. In line with our new strategy 
developed in 2005/6 we have focused the Company on late stage and launched 
products, managed the business to proﬁtability in the second half of the year and 
completed the acquisition of Acorus, thereby creating a substantial specialist hospital 
medicines business which is proﬁtable and cash generative.
”
“
In my report last year we outlined our strategy to transform 
Maelor into a specialist hospital medicines business, focused 
initially in critical care. We identiﬁed the importance of focusing 
on late stage products, thereby reducing the risk and expense 
of early stage development as well as leveraging our non-critical 
care portfolio through efﬁcient partnerships.
I am pleased to report that the implementation of this plan is 
progressing well and has been signiﬁcantly accelerated following 
the recently announced, transforming acquisition of Acorus, 
creating a strong and proﬁtable enlarged Company.
Separating out the recent acquisition of Acorus, which was completed 
after the year end, I am also pleased to report that the underlying 
Maelor business has performed well over the year and in particular 
has delivered a strong and proﬁtable second half.
Building a specialist hospital medicines business
A signiﬁcant contributor to this performance has been the successful 
re-acquisition and re-launch of Volplex, a product Maelor originally 
developed and licensed. Used in operating theatres and wards to 
maintain blood volume, Volplex competes primarily with one other 
long established product.
We have succeeded in trebling sales of Volplex since March 2006 
and Moving Annual Total (MAT) market share has grown from 12% 
to 20%. We have recruited an experienced Commercial Manager 
and with substantial room for further market share growth, the 
management team is conﬁdent that Maelor can continue to win 
new customers and further grow sales of Volplex.
During the year we announced the late stage development of ISOplex 
and AquiHex, both products which will be used in critical care settings. 
ISOplex, in common with Volplex will be used in situations where an 
increase in blood volume is required. ISOplex has been designed to 
mimic natural blood plasma, particularly in the balance of electrolytes. 
The use of these ‘isotonic’ formulations is an area of signiﬁcant interest 
amongst critical care clinicians. Given our experience and existing data 
in this sector it is anticipated that development will be relatively rapid 
and inexpensive for a pharmaceutical product. Development has 
continued to progress on schedule and regulatory approval remains 
to be forecast for the end of 2008.
AquiHex is a 2% aqueous formulation of chlorhexidine, an antibacterial 
product commonly used prior to surgical incision or insertion of 
intravenous (IV) lines. To date all products of this type are alcohol based 
and therefore present problems in settings where ﬂammability is of concern, 
such as in operating theatres. Use of alcohol based products is also 
not recommended when using certain IV lines as it can make them 
brittle. AquiHex is being supplied as a ‘special’ ahead of registration, 
which is currently forecast for late 2009.
_1_MAE_front.indd   6 03/08/2007   10:00:40  Maelor plc annual report and ﬁnancial statements 2007 07
In the middle of the year we succeeded in gaining approval to supply 
unlicensed medicines. Generally known as ‘specials’ these products 
can be requested by physicians for use in patients where there is a 
speciﬁc requirement which is presently unmet by any medicine licensed 
in the UK. In addition to establishing closer relationships with the 
critical care community this strategy will enable Maelor to gauge demand 
for products and where this demand is sufﬁcient, progress these products 
to licence in the UK. We have recently gained distribution rights to a 
selection of ﬂuid and volume replacement products from Germany 
which we also make available as part of this service.
Leverage non-critical care portfolio through 
efﬁcient partnerships
We will continue to select strong partners to commercialise the 
heritage portfolio of products and technologies that do not ﬁt directly 
with the Company’s hospital specialist strategy, in particular our 
catheter ﬂushing solutions OptiFlo and ContiSol and our proprietary 
early stage micelle nanotechnology.
OptiFlo, the UK brand of catheter ﬂushing solutions distributed by 
Bard Limited, continues to perform well, with sales up 6% versus 
2005/6, and remains the UK market leader with a market share 
of 54%.
summary
TREBLED SALES OF VOLPLEX.
EXPANDED PORTFOLIO OF 
CRITICAL CARE PRODUCTS.
GAINED APPROVAL 
TO SUPPLY “SPECIALS”.
CONTINUED PARTNERSHIPS 
FOR NON-CORE PORTFOLIO.
£2.8million
TOTAL TURNOVER
 20%
VOLPLEX MAT MARKET SHARE
 54%
OPTIFLO MARKET SHARE
_1_MAE_front.indd   7 03/08/2007   10:00:42 08 Maelor plc annual report and ﬁnancial statements 2007
Leverage non-critical care portfolio through 
efﬁcient partnerships continued
Included in the ﬁrst half of the year is an initial payment following 
the licensing of our proprietary micelle nanotechnology, micelle 
lidocaine. The partnership with Plethora, a specialist urology company, 
is progressing well and the product has successfully passed through the 
ﬁrst stage of its pre-clinical development programme. Under the terms 
of the agreement Plethora is responsible for product development and 
distribution and Maelor is entitled to milestone and royalty payments. 
The micelle lidocaine technology will be incorporated into Plethora’s 
ongoing product development programme for the treatment of 
interstitial cystitis and painful bladder syndrome. These distressing 
conditions are estimated to afﬂict up to two million women in 
the United States and Europe.
Financial summary
Financial results for the year ended 31 March 2007 have been 
delivered ahead of expectations.
Turnover for the year to 31 March 2007 was £2.84m (2006: £1.86m), 
an increase of 53% over prior year. This signiﬁcant increase can be 
attributed to the management team’s continued focus on growing 
Volplex, the sales growth of OptiFlo as well as an initial payment 
received for our micelle lidocaine nanotechnology.
Gross margins increased from last year by almost 8% to 48% 
as a result of further efﬁciencies in manufacturing and supply.
The Group’s operating loss for the year reduced signiﬁcantly to £0.07m 
from £0.61m in 2006, including the achievement of a £0.02m 
operating proﬁt in the second half of the year. The improvement was 
driven by the sales growth, the initial licensing payment and careful 
cost control.
Group cash balances, net of debt, at 31 March 2007 were £1.43m 
compared with £1.10m last year. At the end of the year we sold 
our ofﬁce building and relocated to a modern leasehold property on 
Chester Business Park. Proceeds from the sale of the building enabled 
the bank mortgage to be cleared leaving the Company debt free at 
the year end. Since the year end we have negotiated a £2.0m bank 
facility for further business expansion.
Acquisition of Acorus Therapeutics Limited
In line with the Company’s strategy, we successfully completed 
a deal post year end to acquire privately owned Acorus for a total 
consideration of approximately £13.0m, comprising £7.0m in cash, 
10,000,000 ordinary shares at 10p each and loan notes of £4.9m, 
contingent on achievement of certain sales milestones.
The deal was funded by an oversubscribed placing of 80,000,000 
10p ordinary shares issued at 10p each and was completed on 
10 May 2007. It is a transforming move for Maelor, with the enlarged 
Group becoming proﬁtable and cash generative.
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review continued
Trading since the period end is in line with expectations and the integration of Acorus is, 
as anticipated, proceeding smoothly. The enlarged business provides us with a platform 
for further growth both organically and through further acquisitions.
”
“
_1_MAE_front.indd   8 03/08/2007   10:00:42  Maelor plc annual report and ﬁnancial statements 2007 09
Acorus is a particularly synergistic acquisition. The product range 
is complementary to Maelor’s with the same customers, distribution 
channels and regulatory systems and processes. The integration 
process is progressing well and on schedule.
Outlook
Our vision remains to build a new force in specialist hospital medicine, 
leveraging our expertise in both pharmaceuticals and medical devices. 
We have re-focused the business, taken it to proﬁtability in the second 
half and in Acorus made a synergistic, transformational acquisition. 
With a strong team in place, Maelor is well positioned to drive 
growth organically and through acquisition.
Tim Wright
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
£ 1 .4million
NET CASH BALANCE
 8%
IMPROVEMENT IN GROSS MARGIN
£0.5million
REDUCTION IN OPERATING LOSSES
summary
RESULTS AHEAD 
OF EXPECTATIONS.
PROFITABLE IN SECOND 
HALF OF YEAR.
WELL POSITIONED 
FOR FUTURE GROWTH.
_1_MAE_front.indd   9 03/08/2007   10:01:08
