 5 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Chief Executive’s review
Our health and safety performance was strong yet  
lost time incidents were 50 per cent above 2009 at  
0.06 per 200,000 exposure hours. We seek to learn 
from every incident and we continue to explore new 
ways of keeping safety top of mind in everything we do. 
This commitment is recognised by our employees,  
as evidenced by our recent survey.
The results of this, our third global employee survey, 
were mixed. Engagement levels remained good, 
though down on 2009. This may be a reflection of the 
global economy but our customers value the skills of 
AMEC’s people, so we continue to invest in 
development, including through the AMEC Academy 
and career paths. 
Our carbon emissions reduction target (see KPIs,  
page 14) is only one small part of our sustainability 
agenda, as we see commercial advantage to be gained 
from supporting our customers’ own initiatives.  
For example, we have been working with National Grid 
on a carbon capture and storage project in Scotland 
and on INEOS Bio’s first commercial scale advanced 
bio-energy facility in the US.
The changes made to the Group Management Team,  
in particular the appointment of Neil Bruce as Chief 
Operating Officer, will continue to support this growth. 
Though sad to see Michael Blacker and Roger Jinks 
announce their retirements, I am delighted to welcome 
Hisham Mahmoud and Eleanor Evans to AMEC. And 
finally, I have personally gained much from Jock 
Green-Armytage’s knowledge and insight and, on your 
behalf, would like to thank him for his unstinting 
service to AMEC. 
Despite uncertainty on the pace of economic recovery, 
the latest IEA World Energy Outlook points to continued 
increases in demand for energy. AMEC is well 
positioned to take advantage of this and has a clear 
strategy for growth (see page 6). Our priorities for 2011 
are simple: to grow while maintaining margins by 
continuing to deliver to our customers and invest in  
our employees. 
Samir Brikho  
Chief Executive 
3 March 2011
The first stage of AMEC’s journey is now done. EBITA of 
£271.8 million in 2010 was more than triple that in 2006 
and the 2010 EBITA margin of 9.2 per cent compared 
with 4.1 per cent in 2006. This hard work by our 22,000 
employees has positioned AMEC as a credible 
long-term partner for our customers. 
Our markets and our customers’ expectations have  
not stayed static during this period. We are becoming  
a more global organisation, as we follow the expansion 
plans of our clients. There is continuing pressure on 
margins and increasing flexibility and responsiveness 
is demanded, if we are to serve our customers well.  
It is our job to manage this while creating additional 
value for all our stakeholders. 
The next stage of our journey is growth, towards our 
Vision 2015. We are striving to build a high-performing 
company while the global economy is recovering.  
We must remain cost competitive, continuing to learn 
from our STEP Change programme. We need to widen 
our customer reach, focusing on key segments, 
prioritising markets, reinforcing the strong delivery 
inherent in our brand and broadening our service 
offering. We have to demonstrate Operational 
Excellence and AMEC’s agility, in the speed of our 
response to our customers’ challenges; the flexibility  
in the way we deliver; our approach to innovation and 
collaboration; and the engagement and skills of our 
employees across all of AMEC's sectors.
We continue to strengthen and develop our customer 
relationships. During 2010 we entered into a global 
agreement to support BP for their onshore facilities 
developments around the world; have been working  
to support EDF’s architect engineer operations on their 
UK nuclear new build programme; and have continued 
to deliver on the Kearl expansion project for Imperial 
Oil in the Canadian oil sands. Further examples can be 
found on pages 17 to 30.
In 2010, underlying revenue growth was 8 per cent,  
and we made a number of acquisitions including Entec 
Holdings Limited. Such growth needs to be aligned 
with AMEC’s values and we set high standards against 
which to measure delivery. 
