 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 4
Chairman’s statement
the subject and a review of how effective the meeting 
has been. The aim is to change the focus of board  
meetings to enable more discussion and debate on  
key strategic matters. 
I was delighted to welcome Neil Carson and Colin Day 
to the board as non-executive directors on 31 August 
and 14 October respectively. Neil brings his knowledge 
of running and growing a successful business in 
Johnson Matthey Plc; Colin a depth of financial 
experience, mostly recently as Chief Financial Officer  
at Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc. Both have already 
contributed substantially to the discussions and 
decisions of the board. Sadly, in May 2010 Martha 
Hesse retired after three terms of service. Her insight 
is much missed. Peter Byrom retired on 9 February 
2011 having completed two terms as a non-executive 
director . We are grateful for his contribution both as  
a director and as Chairman of the audit committee  
over the past six years. He has been succeeded in  
this role by Colin Day.
As you will be aware, I myself have decided to retire 
with effect from our Annual General Meeting on  
5 May 2011. The search for my replacement is well 
underway (see page 40 for further details). I have 
greatly enjoyed my involvement with AMEC over the 
past 15 years and particularly with its employees,  
who have been both supportive and enthusiastic as 
they embraced the challenges we have faced. AMEC is 
a very different business now than it was in 1996 when  
I joined and its success owes much to their dedication.
Some things do not change. In the 2004 Annual Report, 
I said that I remained confident “ that AMEC’s highly 
skilled and dedicated people will grasp the opportunity 
to build on our strengths, expand our service, deepen 
our client relationships and create value for all our 
stakeholders” . The delivery since then has proved the 
truth of these words and I believe they remain equally 
valid going forwards. It has been an honour to be 
Chairman of your company.
Jock Green-Armytage  
Chairman 
3 March 2011
 
 
In 2004, when I was appointed as AMEC’s Chairman, 
we were beginning the migration away from being a 
“typical” construction business and had begun to 
appreciate the increasing importance of oil and gas to 
AMEC’s future. Since then, we have embraced many 
beneficial changes. The AMEC of today is clearly 
focused on the provision of services to the oil and gas, 
minerals and metals, clean energy, water and 
environmental sectors and it is consistently delivering 
its financial targets. Adjusted profit before tax in 2010  
of £280 million was more than double that of 2004, and 
profit margins have increased almost four fold. 
This focus, the commitment and skills of AMEC’s 
22,000 employees, and the strength and depth of our 
customer relationships, have all helped to position the 
company for achievement of its growth strategy: Vision 
2015 (described in more detail on page 6). We have 
started well, achieving organic growth in each of our 
three divisions despite challenging markets. We also 
continue to achieve these results in a manner 
consistent with our values: we have retained our 
position as Oil Equipment and Services sector leader  
in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index; were once more 
one of Canada's Top 100 best employers; and we 
received a number of other accolades for our health, 
safety and environmental performance. AMEC also 
made charitable contributions of £553,000, both by 
‘matching’ our employees’ fundraising efforts in their 
local communities and in support of relief efforts in 
Haiti, Chile and Pakistan. Further details on all these 
items can be found in our 2010 sustainability report.
I have been fortunate to be surrounded by board 
colleagues who understand the need for openness  
and debate as the risks and rewards of Vision 2015 are 
assessed and as performance is managed, measured 
and reported. As a team, we need to understand how 
the company intends to generate value for its 
stakeholders and as Chairman, it has been my task  
to ensure the board has the right balance of skills, 
experience, independence and knowledge of the 
company. During the year I led a number of initiatives 
to prompt the board to consider proactively its role and 
effectiveness and as a result, this is now a continuous 
process and not just an annual review. We now 
conclude each board meeting with a discussion on  
