 6  annual report and accounts 2008 / IS Pharma plc
During the course of a very exciting year, we have established 
ourselves as a dynamic, earnings-focused international specialist 
hospital medicines group. crucially, we are focused on late-stage 
and launched brands. our revenue and earnings growth is driven 
organically and by means of acquisitions.
The financial year 2007/08 provided proof of our strategy at work; 
with the organic growth of our established portfolio of drugs such as 
volplex and the transformational acquisition of acorus in may 2007 
and SePI ag after the year end in april 2008.
Driving a specialist hospital medicines business
the business is focused around late-stage and launched brands 
in three core areas of specialist hospital medicine:
i critical care
i neurology
i oncology
assets, which are out of this area either because they are 
early-stage (such as our proprietary technologies) or are more 
community-oriented, continue to be leveraged through 
partnerships as a “non-focus” portfolio.
the implementation of our strategy over the year can 
be summarised into the three categories of acquisition, 
organic growth and internationalisation.
Rapid growth in turnover 
and earnings continues.
chief executive officer’s review
“ We are creating a growing 
and significantly profitable 
group, both in the UK 
and internationally.” IS Pharma plc / annual report and accounts 2008  7
Acquisition
Acquisition of Acorus and of Aloxi from Helsinn Healthcare SA 
(“Helsinn”)
as announced in the Interim r esults in november 2007, the acquisition 
of acorus was successfully completed during the year and we were 
pleased to announce the completion of its integration ahead of schedule. 
as well as providing a rich portfolio of products, the acquisition has 
allowed us to establish our presence through a strong network of 
distributors in europe, as well as in South america and South africa.
In october 2007, we announced the acquisition of the UK distribution 
rights to aloxi from Helsinn. aloxi is a patented new generation 5-Ht3 
antagonist used for the prevention of acute nausea and vomiting 
associated with high and moderate emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, 
which is differentiated by its strength on initiation and the duration of 
its activity. aloxi obtained a centralised registration in e urope in 2005 
and is already being successfully marketed in 40 countries, with annual 
sales in 2006 of $323m worldwide, according to IMS figures. 
Acquisition of SEPI AG 
Since the year end, we have delivered another transforming, 
earnings-enhancing acquisition which has strengthened the 
company’s portfolio of products within our core areas of expertise 
and added to our late-stage product pipeline. SePI ag is a Swiss-based 
pharmaceutical company with a profitable portfolio of specialist 
hospital pharmaceutical products, highly synergistic with our existing 
portfolio. the business was acquired for an initial cash consideration 
of £9.25m and up to a further £5m in deferred consideration, conditional 
on SePI ag meeting certain regulatory criteria and sales targets.
the acquisition is fully aligned with IS Pharma’s stated strategy of 
building a focused late-stage pharmaceutical and medical devices 
business in the specialist hospital medicine sector:
i  it is a further step in the transformation of the business creating 
a growing and significantly profitable enlarged Group, driven in 
particular by existing and significant potential sales from the 
critical care drug, Haemopressin;
i  it consolidates a presence in the major european markets through 
a distributor network outside the UK and enables a low-risk step 
into the US market through a licensee; and
i  as a virtual business it can be readily integrated into IS Pharma’s 
existing infrastructure with minimal cost and distraction.
Haemopressin is a rapid-acting vasoconstrictor used in the treatment 
of oesophageal varices (varicose veins in the food pipe) and hepatorenal 
syndrome (late stage liver disease). As such, it is a very good fit for 
our critical care portfolio. Haemopressin is currently sold in germany, 
austria, Switzerland, Hungary, Korea, Pakistan and t aiwan. It is 
currently in the mutual recognition regulatory process in europe 
and we anticipate launches in some markets before the year end. 
We are also pleased to confirm that a rolling New Drug Application 
has recently been submitted in the US by our licensee, and that 
this will be subject to “fast track” review by the US Food and 
Drugs administration. 
“ Our revenue and 
earnings growth is 
driven organically 
and by means 
of acquisitions.” 8  annual report and accounts 2008 / IS Pharma plc
chief executive officer’s review continued
Organic growth
During the year our launched product portfolio increased following 
the acquisition of acorus.
We have continued to drive growth in volplex, our plasma substitute 
used in trauma to maintain blood volume, with sales up 41% and 
moving annual trend market share grown from 20% (march 2007) 
to 30%. 
We have also seen continued market growth from cryogesic, 
our market leading vapocoolant spray used before blood sampling 
and cannula insertion and we have identified and taken advantage 
of new applications for the product, particularly in paediatrics.
the growth of mysoline, our treatment for epilepsy and essential 
tremor, has been driven both in the UK market and by our 
internationalisation of the brand as we have been executing a 
planned programme of regulatory switches of mysoline in various 
international territories. We have rapidly developed a new dosage 
form of the product for the management of essential tremor, which 
affects 1 in 20 people over 40. the new dosage form, called mysoline l ow, 
is currently being sold as a “special” ahead of regulatory approval 
so that people suffering from essential tremor can get effective 
relief from their symptoms.
as noted earlier, during the year we also acquired the UK rights to 
aloxi, a new generation treatment for nausea and vomiting associated 
with chemotherapy from Helsinn. We were pleased that our commercial 
team was able to accelerate the integration process and achieve a 
successful launch, ahead of schedule, in February 2008. We have 
achieved encouraging sales, ahead of our expectations, in the three 
months since our launch.
Leverage ‘non-focus’ portfolio through efficient partnerships
maintaining focus on late-stage hospital specialist products 
whilst partnering “non-focus” assets, either because they are 
early-stage or sold in the community, continues to be a key 
strategy of the group. 
In october 2007 we announced a new agreement with 
Bard limited (“Bard”) for distribution of the optiFlo™ catheter 
maintenance solutions. the agreement which covers the UK 
and Ireland continues the very positive relationship that has 
seen the brand grow to become the UK market leader, with 
a 54% market share. 
our partnership with Plethora Solutions limited (“Plethora”), 
who licensed our proprietary micelle nanotechnology for application 
in the treatment for interstitial cystitis, continues positively. 
“ Key corporate 
and product 
acquisitions have 
been made and 
are combined 
with a rich 
product pipeline.” IS Pharma plc / annual report and accounts 2008  9
Focus on high value niches 
of critical care, neurology 
and oncology.
Pipeline of products
as well as the growth within our launched product portfolio, 
our pipeline of late-stage products continues to progress well: 
i  a quiHex, currently sold as a special while it is undergoing 
registration, is a water-based antibacterial with broad antimicrobial 
activity used to combat hospital acquired infections. It is targeted 
for launch during the first half of the financial year 2009/10;
i  Isoplex is a balanced electrolyte plasma substitute used as 
a fluid replacement as a sister product to Volplex in trauma or 
surgery. Development of the product is on schedule and launch 
remains forecast for the second half of the current financial year. 
This product – our own development – is a very good fit with 
our existing critical care portfolio and fulfils a currently unmet 
medical need;
i  acoranil is a product (currently sold as a special) we gained through 
the acquisition of acorus. It is used in the treatment of depression 
and has a particularly important niche in the treatment of nocturnal 
enuresis (bed wetting) in children. regulatory approval from the 
medicines and Healthcare products regulatory agency for the UK 
market has been obtained ahead of schedule and we plan to launch 
this product in the second half of the current financial year; and
i  along with our successful product cryogesic, we have developed 
Dermogesic which is a non-flammable version of the vapocoolant 
spray. It has obvious uses in accident and emergency situations and 
in ambulance and paramedic units and was launched on schedule 
in the first half of the current financial year.
International expansion
2007/08 has also seen the group developing international distribution 
channels by means of which our sales successes in the UK market can 
be replicated. We have focused these activities on the most significant 
international markets.
through the acorus acquisition earlier in 2007, we secured distribution 
and sales channels in the majority of european markets as well as 
South africa, South america and t urkey. Following the year end 
and the acquisition of SePI ag we have deepened our international 
network and now have distributors established in all target european 
markets as well as key developing markets.
The US is a significant healthcare market; however the Board is 
sensitive to the risks and complexity of establishing a presence in 
this territory. the acquisition of SePI ag has enabled us to take a 
low risk presence through a licensee for Haemopressin who will 
be responsible for both registration and commercialisation.
Financial summary
Financial results for the year ended 31 march 2008 have been 
delivered in line with recently upgraded expectations and are the 
first under International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), 
as adopted by the eU. 
revenue for the year to 31 march 2008 has more than doubled 
to £7.0m (2007: £2.8m).  10  annual report and accounts 2008 / IS Pharma plc
chief executive officer’s review continued
Outlook
trading since the year end has been strong and we have secured 
another transformational acquisition. the integration of SePI ag 
is on schedule and due to its almost virtual nature we have already 
managed to secure cost savings and synergies with our existing business.
as well as an oversubscribed placing of £10m and an £8m debt facility 
from HBoS, we have also undertaken a seven for one consolidation 
of our issued share capital and changed the name of the business to 
IS Pharma plc (aIm: ISPH) which better represents the core values of 
the business and its enlarged structure.
With a number of our pipeline products targeted for launch in 
this current financial year and the continued growth of our launched 
portfolio both in the UK and internationally, we look to the future 
with confidence.
Tim Wright
Chief Executive Officer
Financial summary continued 
gross margins increased from last year by 13% to 61% (2007: 48%), 
as a result of further efficiencies in manufacturing and supply and 
an expanded product mix.
The Group enjoyed its first ever full year of profit with a profit 
from operations for the year (before share-based payments and 
amortisation) of £1.62m (2007: loss of £0.06m). 
Retained profit for the year was £1.69m (2007: loss of £0.03m).
Basic earnings per share for the year were 10.3p per share 
(2007: 0.7p loss per share) following the seven for one 
share consolidation. 
group cash balances at 31 march 2008 were strengthened during 
the year to £2.3m compared with £1.4m last year. 
the post balance sheet acquisition of SePI ag was funded via an 
oversubscribed placing in difficult markets of £10.0m. At the same 
time we put into place an £8.0m debt facility through HBoS, which 
is as yet unused.
The Board is constantly reviewing its dividend policy and can confirm 
it will not be paying a dividend for the year ended 31 march 2008 
(2007: £nil).
revenUeS
more than 
doubled
groSS margIn
13%
Uplift in gross margin
marKet SHare
30%
volplex market share
