 4  annual report and accounts 2008 / IS Pharma plc
I am pleased to present the results for the past financial year, during 
which we have continued to deliver against our strategy of building 
a significant international, specialist hospital medicines group. Revenue 
has more than doubled to £7.0m (2007: £2.8m) and we have delivered 
the Group’s first full year of profitability with profit after tax of £1.69m 
(2007: loss of £0.03m). It is the intention of the Board to continue 
to drive earnings growth using this strategy.
the year started with the acquisition of acorus therapeutics limited 
(“acorus”) in may 2007 which was accompanied by an oversubscribed 
equity fundraising. this development provided both a portfolio of 
products with a strong fit and an increased international presence 
in the form of a well-developed network of distributors. acorus was 
successfully integrated into the group ahead of schedule – a testament 
to the strong operational capabilities of our management team.
In parallel, we have seen strong organic growth from the existing 
product portfolio as well as significant progress in the Group’s 
new product pipeline.
Record results and continued 
delivery against strategy.
chairman’s statement
“ o ur focus on late-stage 
specialist products presents 
an increasingly attractive 
and logical investment.” IS Pharma plc / annual report and accounts 2008  5
Since the year end, we have completed the acquisition of 
Speciality European Pharma International AG (“SEPI AG”), a profitable 
Swiss-based business. this acquisition further strengthens our portfolio 
of specialist products. SePI ag was acquired for an initial consideration 
of £9.25m and up to a further £5m in deferred payments, conditional 
upon the achievement of certain regulatory and sales targets. 
t he integration of SePI ag is on schedule and both the cost 
and revenue synergies are being delivered as planned.
Outlook
Since the year end and the acquisition of SePI ag , we have restructured 
the group’s balance sheet, undertaken a seven for one share consolidation 
and changed the name of the business from maelor plc to IS Pharma plc 
to reflect the business model and strategy of the Group. These actions 
were approved at a general meeting of our shareholders on 21 april 2008.
our business model and strategy with their focus on late-stage 
specialist products present, we believe, an increasingly attractive 
and logical investment even in uncertain market conditions.
trading since the year end has been strong and is in line with 
expectations. We look forward to the coming year with confidence.
Geoff McMillan
Chairman
“ We have seen strong 
organic growth 
from the existing 
product portfolio.”
acqUISItIon
£10.0m
raised to acquire SePI ag
BanK F acIlIty
£8.0m
bank facility for further expansion
