 6 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2011
Chief Executive's review
It has been said before but can never be under- 
estimated: knowing your destination is half the journey. 
In late 2009 we set out our Vision 2015 growth strategy 
and everything we have done since then has been 
consistent with this. Against a backdrop of economic 
and political uncertainty, AMEC’s continued growth 
towards our Vision 2015 targets is something of which 
I am very proud. In 2011, revenues grew by 11 per cent, 
operating profits were 12 per cent higher and earnings 
per share, at 70.5 pence, up 13 per cent on 2010. 
In many ways, ours is a straightforward business. In 
each of our markets, we provide technical expertise  
to support our customers as they build, operate or 
decommission their assets. We are paid for the hours 
of service we provide and for helping our customers 
achieve their key goals. Our reputation for consistent 
and successful delivery is invaluable in achieving 
success; simply put, if we do good work, we win more 
good work. To achieve this, we need to employ, train 
and retain high-quality people. Our Vision 2015 growth 
strategy and ongoing success are built on these two 
key pillars – our customers and our people.
Customers 
In recent years we have been positioning AMEC to 
meet our customers’ challenges: including increasing 
complexity; remote and harsh locations; and safety, 
community and environmental concerns. If we are  
to achieve our goals, we also need a strong culture 
which is consistent with our vision. During our  
global conference in March 2011, AMEC’s top 100 
managers discussed how to make the company more  
customer-focused. We challenged ourselves on our 
preconceptions and drew lessons from our successes 
and the experience of others outside our industry. 
These analogies can be very helpful in prompting a 
different way of thinking, for example by comparing 
and contrasting the customer service we provide with 
that of a world-class hotel or restaurant. Among many 
actions which have been implemented as a result are 
the introduction of global leaders for each of our 11 
sectors; a simplification of our values to make them 
easier to remember and apply (see inside back cover); 
and a more explicitly client-focused vision. The results 
of our most recent employee survey suggest that  
our employees understand the importance of this 
customer focus. We will continue to do more work  
in this area in 2012. 
We have worked with many of our customers - which 
range from international oil companies, to utility 
companies, to local and national governments - for 
many years. During 2011, we continued to build 
successfully on these long-term relationships. There 
are many examples shown throughout this report and 
on our website, including BP, ConocoPhillips, BG and 
Magnox. Since the year end, we have announced the 
renewal of our contract with National Grid. 
We have also targeted and won work with new 
customers, such as GDF SUEZ on their Cygnus gas 
field development in the North Sea, a three-year 
nuclear services contract with URENCO and 
importantly, the work we are doing for the Marine Well 
Containment Company (MWCC) in the Gulf of Mexico. 
The sectors we are operating in are growing, supported 
by population growth and its impact on the demand  
for energy. At the same time, the requirements of our 
customers are becoming more complex, as their 
activities take place in more remote locations. We are 
increasingly providing a wider range of solutions to 
help them manage these challenges in a sustainable 
way . Just one example is the Ecospacial information 
database which is discussed further on page 25. 
During 2011, the carbon emissions in tonnes per 
employee increased by 1.5 per cent, as the result of our 
more accurately measuring the site usage. A continued 
focus on our carbon emissions not only helps us 
achieve one of our core sustainability goals, but 
importantly has the potential to reduce the cost of 
doing business.
People 
It is easy to sound glib when talking about the 
importance of our people to our success. We now 
employ over 27,000 people, directly or as agency 
labour, and it is their skills and talents which we sell  
to our customers. We need to hire the best people  
and keep them safe while they are at work. This is the 
right thing to do, and also has a direct impact on our 
reputation and financial results. It is why we track a 
number of non-financial metrics in this area which  
we believe are important forward indicators of 
performance, some of which are shown on pages  
24 to 26.  AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2011 7 
Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials Overview 
AMEC Academy is now well established and provides  
a well-used suite of tools to support our employees  
as they develop their skills and talents and so their 
careers.
Our health and safety performance remains strong and 
is an important component of our sales proposition to 
clients. We had 15 lost time incidents in the year (2010: 
22), a significant improvement in a growing company, 
though above our target of zero. More importantly, the 
total recordable case frequency rate also dropped, to 
0.37 per 200,000 exposure hours (2010: 0.42). But we 
cannot afford to be complacent. During 2012 we will 
be focusing on three key areas which have been 
responsible for high potential incidents* in the past, 
namely working at height, working around energy 
sources and driving. 
As we continue to globalise our operations, we need 
to be able to protect our employees in new countries 
or regions. This last year our plans were tested by the 
unrest in Libya. It was a great relief to us all once our 
expatriate workers were safely home and our local 
workers had been reunited with their families.
How we work to support our customers is a core 
component of how we expect to deliver our Vision 
2015 strategy . Our employees increasingly take a 
collaborative approach, with projects being worked 
on across offices and divisions. The way in which we 
manage projects has been standardised, to facilitate 
this sharing of work and ensure that our global 
customers receive the same level of service from us, 
no matter where in the world they are. We will continue 
to work to improve this, consistent with our value of 
consistently delivering excellence to our customers.
Growth 
During 2011, we welcomed almost 3,500 new 
employees to AMEC through acquisition. The largest of 
these was MACTEC, based in the US, which has now 
been well integrated into our existing Environment & 
Infrastructure business. As one of their employees said 
recently: “We used to think we were big with 2,600 
employees, but now we’ve got the power of 27,000 
people supporting us, around the world.” Harnessing 
this power is what makes an acquisition successful; an 
investment rather than a cost. We will continue to look 
for other suitable acquisitions which allow us to expand 
our geographical presence and / or our capabilities, in 
line with our Vision 2015 objectives. At the same time, 
the strength of our customer relationships and the 
skills of our people will support continued organic 
growth. In 2012, we expect underlying revenue growth 
to be in double digits.
  Our vision is that by continually 
delivering excellence, we inspire trust 
and loyalty in our customers."
Summary
I started with a quote and I will finish with one too: 
know your limits – but never stop trying to exceed 
them. We are seeking to create a culture for AMEC 
where our people respect each other, work sustainably 
and ethically, never compromise on health and safety, 
understand customer needs and are engaged with the 
company. I would like to thank all our employees who 
have worked so hard to achieve the many successes 
demonstrated elsewhere in this report. 
Irrespective of the economic and political climate, we 
need to stay focused on what we are good at and what 
matters to our clients. Our 2012 priorities remain 
simple: to deliver consistently and excellently to our 
customers, time after time. 
 
 
Samir Brikho  
Chief Executive 
21 February 2012
*Those which could have escalated to serious multiple injuries, 
fatalities, asset damage or pollution impact
