 Chairman's statement
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2011 4 4
I was delighted to be invited to join AMEC as your 
Chairman in June 2011. I have watched with interest 
the successful and transformational journey of the last 
few years and it is clear to me that there is more to 
come and much that I can contribute. 
Prior to becoming your Chairman, my career was spent 
in the global professional services market, latterly as 
the Global Chairman of Deloittes. This background is 
extremely relevant to AMEC's business activities. Since 
joining I have spent a considerable amount of time 
visiting AMEC businesses and projects, meeting with 
the senior management team, our people across the 
group, customers and shareholders. I wanted to more 
fully understand our business culture, our priorities and 
what will contribute towards the continued success of 
the business. My overriding impression is the sheer 
professionalism and expertise of our employees . Our 
customers rely on our ability to deliver their projects on 
time, on budget and without causing harm . It is clear 
to me that we take this responsibility seriously and that 
it is this proven ability to deliver excellence that will 
underpin our future growth.
The board
In commenting on the board, I will start by thanking 
my predecessor, Jock Green-Armytage, for his 
contribution as Chairman for seven years and as a 
director for seven years before that. The transition 
process between the two of us went very smoothly.
Turning to the directors. Over the early months 
of my chairmanship I have prioritised gaining an 
understanding of each of the directors and the 
contribution they can and do make. I feel fortunate 
to be working with such a strong team of executive 
and non-executive directors, each with the relevant 
experience, skills and determination to take our 
company forward. My board colleagues have much to 
contribute and the way the non-executive team support 
management, yet challenge where appropriate, has 
been very evident.
Notwithstanding the above observations, I believe we 
do need to do more to ensure the diversity of the board 
better reflects the organisation itself. Those of you who 
have been shareholders for some time will know that 
up until 2009 we had two female directors on the board. 
Our ongoing succession planning is clearly focused on 
addressing diversity while adding to the skills base.
A final point on the board. We have commenced a 
process to independently evaluate the effectiveness 
of the board. Outside consultants will complete the 
process in the months ahead and I will share the 
findings and conclusions in next  year's report.
Board priorities
So what role does the board take in supporting the 
delivery of excellence and sustained growth in our 
performance? For me, there are three key elements. 
Firstly, we need to debate and agree the strategy 
the company is to follow and then monitor the 
performance against the strategic goals. One of the 
things that excites me about AMEC is its ambition - 
without it, no growth strategy will be achieved. Our 
Vision 2015 growth strategy was first outlined in late 
2009 . Since that time the economic outlook has 
changed and uncertainty has increased. AMEC’s 
management understand what they are good at, have 
built solid, long-term customer relationships and have 
made sure that the company is well positioned across 
the energy market. Our recent debate on strategy at 
the board reaffirmed the core principles of Vision 2015 
and its continued appropriateness.
Secondly, we have to be certain that the company has 
the right people in place to deliver . This means not 
only assessing the management skills currently in 
place, but also ensuring the mechanisms are in place 
to develop future talent and plan for succession. As I 
know from my own experience, a company that can 
attract the right talent and engage and motivate its 
employees gains that extra edge which provides 
competitive advantage. A key element of our people 
plan is how they are remunerated and this, particularly 
as far as directors are concerned, is very much in the 
public eye at the moment. Not surprisingly, I have 
examined very carefully the practices and policies  
we employ in this area. The AMEC plan for senior 
executives, including the directors, is to align annual 
bonus plans and long-term incentives with the 
company's performance based on hard measures in 
  My overriding impression is the  
sheer professionalism and expertise  
of our employees." AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2011 5 
Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials Overview 
respect of growth in earnings before interest and tax, 
earnings per share growth, cash generation and total 
shareholder return. A detailed report in respect of 
directors is included in the remuneration committee 
report on page 58.
Thirdly, we must ensure that an appropriate level of 
governance is in place. I have reviewed the governance 
structure we have in place in the company, including 
the board committees, the management committees, 
risk management and oversight generally; and whilst 
everything is subject to continuous improvement, I 
believe our structure is fit for purpose. I have outlined 
my views on this in more detail on page 46, in the 
corporate governance statement. Good governance 
has to be more than just a set of policies and 
procedures; it should guide the decisions taken by  
all our employees on a daily basis. During 2011 we 
reviewed and refreshed our Code of Business Conduct 
and our values, in order that they remain real and 
relevant to our employees. I have been pleased to see 
so much evidence of this: we have achieved our best 
ever safety performance; yet again been ranked sector 
leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability index and one  
of Canada’s top 100 best employers; made charitable 
contributions of £506,000, largely by matching the 
fund-raising activities of our employees; and, not least, 
regularly won repeat business from our customers.
Performance and shareholder returns
In a global environment which continues to be complex 
and challenging and to see frequent lowering of 
economic growth projections, AMEC has performed 
well. As reported in more detail in the Chief Executive's 
review, our company had revenue growth in 2011 of 
11 per cent and growth in earnings per share of 
13 per cent.
In light of the continued strong performance, the board 
is recommending a final dividend of 20.3 pence, 
payable on 2 July 2012 to shareholders on the register 
on 1 June 2012. This would bring the total dividend for 
the year to 30.5 pence, an increase of 15 per cent over 
2010. It is the board’s intention to continue with a 
progressive dividend policy.
Given the strength of the balance sheet, the board has 
decided to commence a share buyback programme of 
£400 million. We expect to complete this over the next 
12 months.
Looking ahead
We have a highly energised and extremely able team 
in AMEC, focused upon our clients and on clear, 
transparent goals.
On your behalf, I would like to thank Samir Brikho, his 
management team and all AMEC's 27,000 people for 
their hard and valuable work in 2011.
John Connolly  
Chairman 
21 February 2012
