 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 8
Chief Executive’ s review
2012 marked the halfway point in the implementation 
of our Vision 2015 growth strategy . We can be proud 
of what we have achieved so far . Despite uncertain 
macro-economic conditions, we have made significant 
progress on many of our goals. 
Looking forward, it is clear that we cannot afford 
complacency . We have already started to consider 
what the company needs to look like beyond 2015. 
John F Kennedy said: “Change is the law of life and 
those who look only to the past or present are certain 
to miss the future.” This is a philosophy we will continue 
to adopt on our journey to success.
Let me talk in turn about our 2012 performance, our 
progress towards Vision 2015 and how we are positioning 
AMEC for a successful future.
2012 results
Our performance in 2012 remained good. Revenues were 
up 28 per cent, or 12 per cent if currency , acquisitions 
and incremental procurement are excluded. Margins 
at 8.0
1
 per cent were down, influenced in particular by 
increased levels of procurement. Further detail can 
be found on pages 27, 28 and 29. Our targeted EPS
2
 of 
greater than 100 pence is now expected to be achieved 
before 2015: in 2012 we were up 14 per cent at 80.4 pence
2
, 
71 per cent higher than when the target was set in 2009. 
I would to thank AMEC’s employees for their hard work 
and commitment in achieving the successes shown here 
and elsewhere in this report. 
Vision 2015 – the halfway point
Ours is a straightforward business. We operate in 
four markets – oil & gas, mining, clean energy , and 
environment & infrastructure. In each we provide people 
with the technical expertise to support our customers 
as they build, operate or decommission their assets. 
We win work because of our reputation for consistent 
and successful delivery – and we do this by employing, 
training and retaining high-quality people.
Vision 2015 is explained on page 10. Shown there is what 
we have done to develop our customer relationships; 
how we have developed our people; how our project 
delivery framework provides a flexible, scalable method 
of delivering consistently to our customers across the 
world; and how we have been achieving growth, organically 
and by acquisition. Importantly , we are achieving our 
financial targets ahead of our original plans. Let me pick 
out a few examples which typify our approach:
 our vision is that by continually delivering excellence, 
we inspire trust and loyalty in our customers. We have 
worked with many of our customers for many years 
and continue to build on these long-term relationships. 
For example, the strength of our relationship with 
Kuwait Oil Company (KOC) helped us win a 16-month 
project management consultancy (PMC) project, 
remediating and disposing of highly contaminated 
material resulting from the Gulf War . New customers 
won in 2012 include T alisman, TAQA and Centrica 
 No company can take success 
for granted: we need to adapt 
if we are to survive and prosper 
in a changing world.”
Samir Brikho 
Chief Executive
Key highlights
 Another good performance in 2012, marking the 
halfway point of our Vision 2015 growth strategy
 With our continued focus on our customers and 
our people, we expect to deliver our targeted EPS
2
 
of greater than 100 pence before 2015
 Our new, simplified, geographic structure 
is designed to promote collaboration and so 
maximise growth opportunities. It positions 
us for 2015 and beyond.
1
 As defined on page 3
2
  Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 
before intangible amortisation and exceptional items. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 9 
Governance Financials Performance Overview Strategy 
 we need to recruit and retain the best people and keep 
them safe at work. This has a direct impact on our 
reputation and financial results. We track a number of 
non-financial metrics in this area, some of which are 
shown on pages 10 and 24. Successfully resourcing 
for new projects is vital and in 2012 we recruited some 
800 people each month to join AMEC
 our safety focus remains crucial. Although our lost 
time injury frequency rate reduced from 0.04 per 
200,000 exposure hours to 0.03, our T otal Recordable 
Case Frequency Rate increased slightly , from 0.37 to 
0.38. We will continue to focus on improvements in 
2013 and will continue to seek to engineer safety into 
our designs
 the quality of submissions for our HSSE awards 
continues to climb. The 2012 winners included those 
who intervened to perform CPR and so save the life 
of a colleague; and the team working on the Chirag 
oil project in Azerbaijan. Here there are 16 different 
nationalities on a major fabrication site yet by improving 
two-way communication they have achieved over 
15 million exposure hours without a lost time incident
 we continue to focus on our carbon footprint. Sadly , 
greater transparency of North American activities has 
caused an apparent increase from 2.3 to 3.8 tonnes of 
carbon per employee, despite many good initiatives in 
other areas
 we have been taking an increasingly collaborative 
approach, providing consistent quality to our 
customers, despite projects being worked on across 
offices and countries. One example is the Oyu T olgoi 
project in Mongolia, where our project staff are drawn 
from locations as far apart as China and Canada
 we continue to promote a strong engagement with the 
communities in which we work. For example, in 2012 
we provided solar power and rainwater harvesting to 
an SOS Children’s Village in Nigeria and worked with 
the children at an elementary school in Georgia, US 
on similar issues
 our growth is both organic and by acquisition. In 2012 we 
expanded our position in the UK with the acquisition of 
600 nuclear specialists, positioned oursel ves in Australia 
for the provision of environmental and infrastructure 
services, and invested in Brazil. We also expanded 
future growth opportunities with the creation of a joint 
venture with Samsung and a collaboration agreement 
with Aibel. These and other similar examples are 
expanded on elsewhere in this report.
2015 and beyond
With a strong track record of success, it would be easy 
for us to be complacent. However , I firmly believe that no 
company can take success for granted: we need to adapt 
if we are to survive and prosper in a changing world. 
In October 2012 we introduced a new, geographic 
structure and promoted Simon Naylor , John Pearson and 
Hisham Mahmoud to the new roles of Group Presidents 
of Americas, Europe and Growth Regions respectively . 
We want to maximise growth opportunities in each of our 
four markets, providing consistent services across each 
of the geographies. This is not about changing our vision, 
mission, values or strategy – it is about our tactics and our 
sense of urgency . We now have a simplified, more agile 
structure with a greater focus on collaboration and 
fostering sustainable growth.
At the global conference in December 2012, some 
60 of AMEC’s senior managers discussed how the 
new structure will operate; what new opportunities it 
throws up; and how quickly these can be crystallised. 
We are clear that we expect growth to continue in 
both the Americas and in Europe, but see the greatest 
opportunities in Growth Regions, where we need to 
establish more – and stronger – localised positions.
Summary
In 2013, we expect ongoing economic uncertainty and 
more challenging conditions in certain areas. Overall 
we continue to expect growth, with our conventional 
oil & gas business forecast to grow strongly .
The next stage on our journey is ‘2015 and beyond’. Our 
focus on our customers and our people will continue but 
increasingly we will be promoting how – by collaborating, 
improving and growing – we can ensure we are achieving 
our targets. Our goal is to be a trusted partner: the 
supplier of choice for our customers; the employer of 
choice for our people; and the company of choice for 
our investors. 
The words may sound glib – our task is to turn these 
aspirations into reality as successfully as we have done 
previously . We will do this by focusing on what we are 
good at and what matters to our clients.
Samir Brikho 
Chief Executive 
14 February 2013
