 CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
Against a very difficult economic backdrop I am pleased 
to report that for the year ending 30 June 2009 profit 
before tax and amortisation of intangible assets amounted 
to £13.1m and adjusted earnings per share
1
 to 33.24p.  
This compares with profit before tax and amortisation of 
intangible assets of £14.1m and adjusted earnings per 
share
1
 of 36.22p for the previous year.  These results 
demonstrate the robustness and diversity of ISG’s portfolio 
of businesses, and accordingly, the Board recommends a 
final dividend of 9.66p per share, making a total dividend 
for the year of 13.66p per share.  This represents an 
increase of 3.5% on last year.  Our business is cash 
generative and the balance sheet is strong with net cash 
of £32.1m.
ISG has not been immune from the impact of the 
global economic climate.  However, as these results 
demonstrate, our diversification policy has given the 
business much greater resilience.  Particularly our retail 
and regional construction businesses have adapted and 
performed well to largely offset the anticipated sharp 
decline in the London commercial office market.  We are 
a significantly more robust business compared to the 
last downturn in 2005 where our adjusted earnings per 
share fell to 11 .18p.  Selected acquisitions have raised our 
exposure to overseas growth markets and broadened our 
ability to service our international customers.  
Over the last twelve months our strategic priorities have 
been firstly to align our UK cost base to revenue, secondly 
to continue to expand our UK activities in the retail and 
public sectors and thirdly to continue to invest in higher 
growth overseas markets.
Each year my statement gives me the opportunity to 
pay tribute to the hard work and dedication of our staff.  
Above
Client Microsoft
Sector Office
Location Reading,  
Berkshire, UK
2009 National BCO Award Winner - Best Fit Out of Workplace
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
1
before amortisation of intangible assets and in the prior year adjusting for the 
release of a UK corporation tax provision  Above
Client Travelers 
Management Ltd
Sector Office
Location London,  
UK
3 This has been a particularly difficult time for them as we 
have had to downsize our resources in the UK to match 
business levels.  Despite this they have continued to 
provide the dedicated, high quality service to our clients 
which is the hallmark of our business.  Their hard work and 
commitment to the values of ISG have been especially 
appreciated in this challenging year.
In December, Steve Trotter retired as an Executive Director 
and stood down from the ISG Board at the end of the 
financial year.  Steve joined the group in 1997 to set up our 
London new build activities and joined the ISG Board in 
2005 taking responsibility for all of our London operations.  
I would like to thank him for his contribution to the group 
and on behalf of the Board wish him well in his retirement.
At the start of the current financial year the in year order 
book stood at £686m a decline of only 9% compared to 
the same date last year.  There are signs of a recovery 
in demand for office space in London, but this will not 
benefit our business until 2010.  By contrast we expect 
our retail businesses to continue to perform well as the 
supermarkets continue to add space and as banks again 
realise the importance of modernising their branch network 
in order to attract retail deposits.  Whilst UK private sector 
construction will remain subdued, we expect overseas, 
particularly Asia, to lead the recovery.  
Overall our markets remain highly competitive but the 
business continues to trade in line with our expectations.  
We have demonstrated that we have successfully 
transformed the business into one that is far more able 
to withstand an uncertain business environment.  We will 
continue to search out opportunities overseas to maintain 
that momentum.  
Roy Dantzic
Chairman
8 September 2009
Above
Client London Borough 
of Southwark
Sector Office
Location London,  
UK
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Top Centre Bottom
Client Barclays Bank plc Nokia Sainsbury’s
Sector Retail Retail Retail
Location Brighton,  
East Sussex, UK
Shanghai,  
China
Calne,  
Wiltshire, UK
5
