 RepoR t  
AnD FInAncIAL 
St AteMentS 2010
cHAIRMAn’S 
StAteMent
our consistent and robust performance during the 
financial year ended 30 June 2010 is particularly 
pleasing in light of the challenging economic 
environment and uncertainty affecting our sector.  
In line with our expectation, profit before tax from 
continuing operations before exceptional items 
and amortisation of intangible assets amounted 
to £12.0m (2009: £13.3m).  Adjusted earnings per 
share
1
 amounted to 29.91p compared to 33.65p for 
the previous year.  t he Board remains confident that 
it has the right strategy for continued success.  It is 
recommending a final dividend of 10.14p per share, 
resulting in dividends per share for the year as a whole 
totalling 14.34p compared to 13.66p for last year – an 
increase of 5%.  our business continues to be cash 
generative.  At the year end net cash stood at £31 .0m 
(2009: £32.1m) after reducing bank indebtedness by a 
further £5.6m.
t he strength of the business is underpinned by its 
strategy to:
•	 leverage our strong relationships with major 
uK and uS-based customers by servicing their 
international growth plans for commercial offices;
•	 further establish our uK and international 
presence in the retail fit out market of high street 
banks, food retail and global fashion brands;
•	 focus the business on the private sector which 
currently accounts for 70% of the Group’s 
revenue;
•	 continue a geographic expansion in the uK of our 
construction business to strengthen the service 
offering to our core clients.
A feature of the year has been our involvement 
in large-scale and prestigious projects.  A notable 
example is the olympic Velodrome stadium where 
we have performed to time and cost and attracted 
favourable reviews.  other noteworthy projects include 
the fitting out of a 400,000 sq. ft. office building 
for KpMG in canary Wharf and the completion of 
the hotel lobby and casino at the new Marina Bay 
Sands complex in Singapore.  of equal importance, 
in terms of revenues rather than project size, are 
our framework agreements with most of the uK 
supermarket groups and high street banks.
In our overseas markets our business comes 
predominantly from our multinational client base 
rather than national occupiers.  While some of these 
1 
from continuing operations before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets
Roy Dantzic 
chairman   
client Burges Salmon 
Sector office 
Location  Bristol, uK
3 RepoR t  
AnD FInAncIAL 
St AteMentS 2010
clients have been cautious about the speed of their 
expansion in the current market, we are still winning 
significant new projects.  For example, in addition to 
Marina Bay Sands in Singapore, we are fitting out a 
70,000 sq. ft. office for Barclays in Geneva.
We have completed the integration of our recent 
acquisitions.  t hey have successfully assimilated 
our culture and values and have adopted our 
more rigorous systems and controls.  We have 
now consolidated our uK businesses into three 
distinct entities, namely Fit out, Food Retail and 
construction.  each has its own managing director 
and management board.  t his will provide greater 
focus to deliver the future growth of the business 
and also provide greater clarity for our customers.  
our overseas businesses, based in europe, Asia 
and the Middle east will largely face the market as 
before although we are taking a number of steps to 
strengthen their managements.
our vision is to be a leading international brand, 
delivering exceptional service.  We could not achieve 
this without the loyalty and hard work of our people, 
for which I thank them.  t heir commitment has seen 
the business continue to impress customers, win and 
deliver great projects, receive prestigious awards, 
while maintaining our exemplary health and safety 
record.
We can see signs of recovery in all our markets, 
except uK construction, but lead times are shorter.  
t hus whilst our order book at the year end at £742m 
is some £80m lower than last year, the amount due 
to be delivered in the current year is higher at £704m 
compared with £686m at this point last year.  Margins 
however will remain under pressure and therefore an 
improvement in profitability will be dependent upon 
the early signs of a pick up in economic activity being 
sustained into the second half of the financial year.
In the longer term we still view the future with 
confidence, based on our reputation with our major 
clients and the success of our strategy of diversifying 
the business by activity, sector and geography.  We 
will continue to explore opportunities to broaden 
further our business base.
Roy Dantzic 
chairman 
8 September 2010
 top centre Bottom
client olympic Delivery toD’S cardiff county  
 Authority  council
Sector Hospitality & Leisure Retail public & community
Location  London, uK Hong Kong cardiff, uK   
client Sir John Deane’s college 
Sector education 
Location  cheshire, uK 
united Kingdom europe Middle east & Asia
ISG office locations
5 RepoR t  
AnD FInAncIAL 
St AteMentS 2010
 Above 
client Standard chartered Bank
Sector office 
Location  Singapore 
photo courtesy of Woodhead 7
