 Although for the third year running I am reporting our 
results against a backdrop of a challenging economic 
environment, I am delighted to say that our strategy  
of diversifying our business has enabled us to deliver  
a pleasing set of results. 
Chairman’s 
statement
Office -	K&L	Gates,	London,	UK ISG	plc	Annual	r eport	and	accounts	2011				3
Pr ofits	of	£11.5m	befor e	tax	fr om	
continuing	operations	but	befor e	
exceptional	items	and	amortisation	of	
intangible	assets	–	br oadly	in	line	with	
those	of	last	year	(2010:	£12.0m)	–	 
have	been	generated	fr om	a	significant	
incr ease	in	volume	of	work	performed.	 
Adjusted	ear nings	per	shar e*	stand	 
at	27.03p	(2010:	29.91p).
These	r esults	demonstrate	the	r esilience	
of	our	business	model	and	give	the	
Boar d	the	confidence	to	incr ease	the	
final	dividend	in	line	with	our	pr ogr essive	
dividend	policy .	Accor dingly ,	the	Boar d	
is	r ecommending	a	final	dividend	of	
10.65p 	 per 	 shar e, 	 a 	 5% 	 incr ease, 	 making	
dividends	for	the	year	total	15.06p	per	
shar e	(2010:	14.34p).	I	can	also	r eport	
a	further	impr oved	net	cash	balance	of	
£36.1m	at	30	June	2011	(2010:	£31.0m).
W e	have	enjoyed	some	outstanding	
successes	during	the	year .	In	the	UK,	
a	particularly	noteworthy	achievement	
has	been	the	completion	of	the	London	
2012	V elodr ome.	It	hit	the	headlines	
as	the	first	building	completed	on	the	
Olympic	Park	–	ahead	of	time	and	to	
cost.	Since	the	year	end	we	have	been	
awar ded	the	contract	to	manage	the	
extensive	temporary	infrastructur e	
works	for	the	Olympics.	It	is	this	type	
of	consistent	delivery	that	has	helped	
us	to	continue	to	build	up	the	excellent	
r elationships	we	have	established	with	
our	commer cial	and	r etail	customers	
acr oss	the	banking,	food	and	high	str eet	
r etail	sectors.
While	the	year	saw	us	successfully	
challenge 	 the 	 Office 	of 	 Fair 	 T rading, 	 enabling	 
us	to	write	back	last	year’ s	associated	
exceptional 	 item 	 of 	 £1.7m, 	 we 	 also 	 faced	
a 	 number 	 of 	 challenges. 	 In 	 particular , 	 our	
Construction 	 business 	 covering 	 the 	 South	
W est 	 suf fer ed 	 fr om 	 the 	 marked 	 downtur n	
in	activity	in	that	r egion,	incurring	both	
trading	losses	and	the	costs	of	having	 
to	r estructur e	the	business.
Outside 	 the 	 UK, 	 we 	 saw 	 a 	 rise 	 in 	 volumes,	
boosted	by	first	time	contributions	fr om	
our 	 Middle 	 East 	 and 	 Moscow 	 businesses.	
However ,	overseas	pr ofits	ar e	lower	
due	to	pr essur e	on	mar gins	and	losses	
arising	fr om	a	particularly	complex	
pr oject	in	Geneva	for	one	of	our	major	
blue	chip	clients.
In	addition	to	or ganic	gr owth,	we	
have	continued	to	look	for	acquisition	
opportunities	to	extend	our	range	
of	activities	and	geographic	r each.	
In	December	we	established	a	new	
office	in	Scotland,	built	ar ound	the	
former	Rok	plc	construction	team.	
In	April,	we	acquir ed	85%	of	Realys	
Gr oup	Limited	(Realys).	It	specialises	
in	design-led	pr oject	management,	
servicing	multinational	companies	fr om	
a	base	in	Shanghai.	Realys	brings	with	
it	an	impr essive	and	mainly	W ester n	
Eur opean	client	list	–	many	of	whom	
ar e	new	to	us.	W e	ar e	curr ently	in	
discussion	with	a	number	of	other	
potential	acquisitions.
Ther e	ar e	two	changes	to	our	Boar d	
of	dir ectors.	At	the	end	of	May	we	
announced	the	appointment	of	Richar d	
Whittington	as	a	Non-Executive	Dir ector .	
Richar d,	a	charter ed	accountant,	has	
r ecently	r etir ed	as	a	Senior	Partner	at	
KPMG	wher e	one	of	his	r esponsibilities	
was	Global	Head	of	the	Building	and	
Construction	practice.	His	experience	
of	our	sector	and	of	business	in	general	
will	be	of	significant	value.	John	Jer emy ,	
our Senior Independent Director 
and	Chairman	of	the	Remuneration	
Committee,	has	decided	to	r etir e	fr om	
the	Boar d	at	the	conclusion	of	the	AGM	
after	16-years’	service.	He	assisted	the	
founders	at	the	time	of	the	management	
buy-out	and	became	a	Non-Executive	
Dir ector	on	flotation	in	1998.	On	behalf	
of	all	shar eholders	I	would	like	to	thank	
him	for	his	wise	stewar dship	and	
counsel	during	a	period	of	transition	
fr om	a	£100m	r evenue	company	at	
flotation	to	one	of	nearly	£1.2	billion.	
Above	all,	his	good	sense	and	practical	
appr oach	will	be	much	missed.
*	 fr om	the	ear nings	attributable	to	owners	of	the	company	fr om	continuing	operations	befor e	exceptional	items	and	
amortisation	of	intangible	assets	(Note	15)
These 	 r esults 	 demonstrate
the	r esilience	of	our	
business	model
The	Boar d	is	
r ecommending	a	final
dividend	of	10.65p	per	
shar e,	a	5%	incr ease
In addition to organic 
gr owth,	we	have	
continued	to	look	for	
acquisition	 opportunities
to	extend	our	range	of
activities 	 and 	 geographic
r each
Roy Dantzic
Chairman Chairman’ s	statement
It	is	particularly	appr opriate	to	pay	
tribute	to	our	employees	this	year .	
Thr ough	their	talent	and	har d	work	we	
have	won	numer ous	awar ds.	W e	wer e	
named	as	Fit	Out	Company	of	the	Y ear	
at	the	Mixology	A war ds	and	Contractor	
of	the	Y ear	at	the	Global	Retail	and	
Leisur e	A war ds.	Our	Health	and	Safety	
wins	included	four	gold	medals	fr om	
The	Royal	Society	for	the	Pr evention	
of	Accidents.	These	achievements	
r eflect	the	outstanding	commitment	and	
dedication	of	our	employees	to	uphold	
the 	 highest 	 standar ds 	 of 	 customer 	 service 
which 	 we 	 demand 	 and 	 our 	 clients 	 expect.
In 	 summary , 	 I 	 am 	 delighted 	 to 	 say 	 we	
have 	 successfully 	 navigated 	 another	
testing 	 year . 	 W e 	 r emain 	 confident 	 in 	
the 	 str ength 	 of 	 our 	 business, 	 which 	 is	
supported 	 by 	 an 	 or der 	 book 	 at 	 30 	 June	
of 	 £750m 	 (2010: 	 £742m) 	 with 	 a 	 str ong	
and 	 impr oving 	 private 	 sector 	 bias 	 of	
78% 	 (2010: 	 64%). 	 W e 	 have 	 cr eated 	 a	
sustainable 	 and 	 r esilient 	 business 	 – 	 one	
which 	 we 	 ar e 	 determined 	 will 	 continue	 
to 	 gr ow 	 its 	 market 	 shar e, 	 both 	 or ganically	
and 	 by 	 acquisition.
Roy Dantzic
Chairman
6	September	2011
Our vision
To be the leading global 
construction services 
company delivering the 
built environment for 
international and local 
customers  ISG	plc	Annual	r eport	and	accounts	2011				5
Office -	Axis	REIT	Gr oup	of	Companies,	Kuala	Lumpur ,	Malaysia 6				ISG	plc	Report	and	Financial	Statements	2011
 Being involved in the construction of the most 
beautiful building on the Olympic Park has been a 
phenomenal experience. Having had the chance 
to work on this iconic building, with such a 
focused team of designers, contractors and ISG 
colleagues is something I’m very proud of.
“ 
“  ISG	plc	Annual	r eport	and	accounts	2011				7
Client:	Olympic	Delivery	Authority
Area:	170,000	sq	ft
Completion date:	January	2011
Team:	Design	T eam	-	Hopkins	Ar chitects,	
Expedition	Engineering	and	BDSP
Description: The	6,000	seat	London	2012	
V elodr ome	will	host	the	Olympic	and	Paralympic	
indoor	track	cycling	events	and	will	be	used	by	
elite	athletes	and	the	local	community	after	the	
Games.	ISG	commenced	construction	work	in	
Mar ch	2009	and	completed	the	V elodr ome	in	
January	2011,	ahead	of	schedule.	It	was	the	first	
venue	to	be	completed	on	the	Olympic	Park.	 
The	legacy	V elodr ome	will	include	a	café,	bike	
hir e	and	cycle	workshop	facilities	and	the	360	
degr ee	concourse	level	of fers	fantastic	views	over	
the	Olympic	Park,	and	out	to	the	London	skyline.
Awards:	RoSP A	Gold	A war d	/	British	Safety	
Council	-	Inter national	Safety	A war d	with	Merit	
/	Considerate	Contractors	Scheme	A war d	/	
CLM	-	Sustainability	A war d	/	CLM	-	Performance	
Excellence	A war ds	/	Park	Health	-	Best	overall	
occupational	impr ovement	on	the	Park	/	New	
London	A war ds	-	‘Playing’	(leisur e)	category	
and	Overall	winner	/	Stadium	Business	A war ds-	
Ar chitectur e	&	Design	category	/	AJ100	A war ds	
-	Building	of	the	Y ear	2011	/	RIBA	A war ds	2011	-	
Sports	and	Leisur e	Building	of	the	Y ear	/	Institute	
of	Civil	Engineers	-	Building	A war d	/	Stirling	
Prize	2011	-	final	shortlist	of	six	pr ojects	/	British	
Construction	Industry	A war ds	-	shortlisted	for	
major	building	pr oject.
Geoff Grant
Project Manager,
London 2012  
Velodrome, UK
