 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
SECTION THREE_PAGE SIX
06 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
SECTION THREE_PAGE SEVEN
in the year ended 30 April 2003,
we again delivered strong 
organic growth, an important and
constant feature of our business
07
Another excellent financial year
The year ended 30 April 2003 
continued the track record of excellent
performance by iSOFT Group plc.  
Our shareholders have come to
expect strong strategic, operational
and financial performance from the
business, and I am pleased to
announce that we have delivered
against each of these expectations.  
Contained in this Annual Report is 
an impressive account of the strength of
the iSOFT business evidenced by the
significant growth in sales, profits, cash
generation and earnings per share.  
It is particularly satisfying to report that
the excellent financial performance was
the result of successful sales activity
and delivery across all the geographies
that we target with our innovative
software applications for healthcare
delivery organisations.
A winning strategy
iSOFT Group plc was listed on the
London Stock Exchange in July 2000
with a clearly defined business strategy.
Our consistent focus has been on 
the development of world class
software application systems, which
address fully the administrative and
clinical information management
requirements of healthcare 
provider organisations. 
In modern healthcare economies the
rate of change in information system
requirements has been dramatic and
dynamic.  Governments are responding
to the needs of clinicians by investing 
to make information available at the
point of care through the deployment 
of new software applications,
broadband networks and mobile
computing devices.
We have stuck to our strategy resolutely
because of our confidence that it
represents a close fit with developments
in our markets and the requirements of
our customers.  As healthcare looks to
adopt best practice from other sectors
of the economy, the move towards
disseminating information through the
Application Service Provider (ASP)
model will become more apparent.
iSOFT is well positioned for this
development as we target our expertise
towards producing application content
for the larger service organisations
intending ASP offerings.
We look forward with enthusiasm 
and are confident that our strategy 
will continue to serve us well and 
deliver value for our shareholders 
and customers. SECTION THREE_PAGE EIGHT
08
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
iSOFT - an integrated business
In the year ended 30 April 2003, we
again delivered strong organic growth,
an important and constant feature of our
business.  Acquisitions have been
selective and shrewd.  
The primary rationale for acquisition
in the iSOFT business model is to
obtain direct access to an enlarged
customer base for our compelling
software application suite.  
The logic in this approach means that
we can integrate acquired businesses
quickly under a single strategy and a
unified product portfolio.
In our last Annual Report I was able to
announce the acquisition of the
healthcare systems business interests of
Northgate Information Solutions plc.  I
am pleased to confirm that the process
of integration is now complete and the
combined skills of an enlarged
workforce has ensured strong,
successful trading in the acquired
customer base.  During the year we also
acquired Revive Group Limited, the
leading United Kingdom exponent of 
e-booking solutions.
Acquisitions will continue to be a
feature of our business model but they
will be limited to few, highly selective,
examples that are consistent with our
focus on being the leading application
content provider in our chosen markets.
Board development
As announced at the time of our interim
results last December, the next stage in
the development of the successful
iSOFT business will involve controlled
geographic expansion and an increased
focus on product strategy to open new
markets.  The Board recognises that
these challenges require a full-time
commitment from a member of the
Board and I am delighted to confirm that
Patrick Cryne, iSOFT’s current Chief
Executive Officer, will take on the
executive role of Director, Corporate
Development, to establish iSOFT as the
global leader in health systems.
As founder of iSOFT, it is Patrick’s
entrepreneurial talent, business acumen,
and personal drive that have shaped the
iSOFT business as it is today.  I am
delighted that these exceptional skills
will now be targeted toward the next
phase of the Group’s development.  
I would like to take this opportunity to
thank Patrick on behalf of both the
Board and the staff of iSOFT for his
contribution to date, and I look forward
to continuing working together as we
move forward in the pursuit of the
exciting new expectations we set 
for ourselves.  SECTION THREE_PAGE NINE
09
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Tim Whiston, the current Group Finance
Director, will succeed Patrick as Chief
Executive Officer.  Tim’s succession will
come as no surprise to our investors,
customers, business partners and staff.
He is a natural successor with an
excellent knowledge of the iSOFT Group
business.  The Board is delighted that
we are able to promote from within for
these key roles.  As stated in our Interim
Report, these changes will take effect
from this year’s AGM in July.  At this
time the Board will announce the new
Group Finance Director.
I am also pleased to announce that on
14 March 2003, Rene Kern was
appointed as a non-executive director to
the Board.  Rene is a senior executive
with General Atlantic Partners who, at
the balance sheet date, owned 12.8% of
the shares of iSOFT Group plc. 
Our management and staff
I am proud to say that in our workforce
we have some of the computer
industry’s best technologists and
software developers.  
This strong position is complemented
by a high order of professionalism 
and commitment across the 
iSOFT organisation.
The achievement of this year’s 
growth from the high base set in
previous years is testimony to the
resourcefulness and tenacity of 
our staff and the management team.  
I thank them all for their commitment
to the ongoing success of
the business.
Governance
Over the last few years, but more
particularly over the year ended 
30 April 2003, we have sought to
demonstrate that good governance 
is a high priority for our business.  
We continue to modify and improve 
our management of the business by
reference to best practice.
Included within this year’s Annual Report
we have our most comprehensive report
to date on governance within iSOFT.
We are concerned not only to 
deliver good performance for 
our shareholders but also to give
confidence that the business is
responsibly and consistently 
well managed.
The fact that iSOFT Group plc is a
quality business with strong
fundamentals gives me great confidence
that the success achieved to date will
continue to be exhibited into the future
for the benefit of our shareholders,
customers and staff.
Roger Dickens
Executive Chairman
iSOFT Group plc is a quality
business with strong
fundamentals
