 LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN
page two
02
INNOVATIVE APPLICATIONS FOR HEALTHCARE COMMUNITIES 03
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN
page three
Dear Shareholder,
Since its listing on the London Stock Exchange in July 2000, iSOFT has grown strongly to
become a healthcare software applications company of international significance. The year
ended 30 April 2004 continued the consistent record of strong growth in turnover 
and profitability.
Our progress as a publicly quoted company is testimony to our ability to deliver software
applications of unique value to our growing healthcare industry customer base. From its
inception, the iSOFT business has had the ambition to be the global leader in the provision 
of software applications for healthcare provider organisations.
The rate of progress made in the year ended 30 April 2004 has been pleasing with a number
of new business wins overseas to complement our outstanding success in winning contracts
under the National Programme for Information Technology (NPfIT) in England. Global leadership
as an application software supplier to the healthcare market is within our reach and we remain
committed to this goal for your benefit and that of our customers and employees.
Leadership in our market depends on reading future trends in healthcare better than our
competitors, developing innovative software application responses to these trends and
establishing distribution networks to get our products to market effectively. In the year ended
30 April 2004, we have continued to invest heavily in our LORENZO software application to
meet the current and emerging information systems requirements of hospital organisations and
primary care physicians.
Our use of technology in delivering comprehensive functionality and utility to support healthcare
processes positions LORENZO favourably against international requirements for healthcare
software. The demonstrable strength of our software applications led to the announcement in
April 2004 of our alliance with Microsoft to package LORENZO for ease of implementation by
third party organisations on an international basis. Increasingly, we expect to work with the
large IT service organisations to hasten the introduction of our applications into new
international markets.
The year ended 30 April 2004 was significant in corporate development terms because of our
merger with Torex PLC (Torex). The merger completed on 23 December 2003 and was finally
cleared by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) on 24 March 2004. The rationale for the merger
was well understood and supported by the investor community, customers and staff of both
iSOFT and Torex. From the outset we made it clear that the combined entity will have a single
application portfolio, based primarily on the iSOFT suite of software. The strength of the former
Torex service organisation will be deployed increasingly to support the LORENZO offering either
through direct involvement with customers or via our work with IT service organisations
engaged in implementing iSOFT applications.
The rationale for the merger anticipated significant synergies and, despite a protracted period
of competition review by the OFT, we completed all planning work for the integration of the two
businesses by our year end. We are confident, based on that work, that we have increased the
capacity of our organisation to be an effective international healthcare software application
vendor. Additionally we expect to realise considerable cost structure improvements from the
opportunity to rationalise our operations, particularly in, but not confined to, the UK.
WE HAVE CONSIDERABLE INNOVATIVE TALENT WITHIN OUR
ORGANISATION AND A FERVENT DESIRE TO EXPRESS IT LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN
page four
04
Overall, we are very pleased with the merger progress and are re-inforced in our view that the
transaction represents a step-change in iSOFT’s progression towards being the global leader in
healthcare software applications.
A key factor in the successful development of the iSOFT business is the strength of your Board
in terms of its experience, enthusiasm and commitment to good governance. The changes
made since our last year end position us well for the next stage of corporate development of iSOFT.
Of course good strategic direction requires a strong execution capability. During the last year
we have strengthened our operational management team as a priority for the business. The
merger with Torex brought with it considerable operational management talent, particularly in
the software services area. We were pleased to welcome these new colleagues into the
enlarged iSOFT business. However, we have also recognised the need for investment staffing
in order to maintain the rate of growth that we have come to expect. Accordingly, we have
made a number of senior external recruitments aimed at consolidating our position in
established markets and opening new international territories for our software applications.
I would like to express my personal thanks to all our staff for their hard work and commitment
to the iSOFT business over the last year.
The success that we have achieved is only possible because we have considerable innovative
talent within our organisation and a fervent desire to express it through our application
products for the benefit of our healthcare customers.
The iSOFT business has performed well to date and the strength of the Group’s current market
position is such that I am confident that we are poised for further profitable growth over the
coming years.
Yours sincerely
Patrick Cryne
Executive Chairman 05
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN
page five
INNOVATIVE APPLICATIONS FOR HEALTHCARE COMMUNITIES
