 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
page six
06
INNOVATIVE APPLICATIONS FOR HEALTHCARE COMMUNITIES 07
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
page seven
emphasise intermediate, community and
domiciliary care. Realising the benefits of
connecting up individual healthcare
providers and establishing an effective
supply chain of services across entire
healthcare communities therefore
represents the principal objective of these
reform initiatives.
Importantly, investment in modern
information technology solutions is
recognised as a key tool in the efficient
organisation and delivery of care.
With the administrative and clinical
practice of medicine largely common
around the world, new generation software
applications that support the capture,
collation, processing, distribution and
presentation of information for all those
involved in the delivery of healthcare in a
given community are in great demand in
each of the major healthcare economies.
At the heart of this new information
systems requirement is the introduction 
of comprehensive electronic health records 
for citizens.
The requirement for healthcare information
services to have extended reach across
communities has led to the procurement of
these solutions being conducted on a
scaled-up, regional, or even national,
basis. This represents a significant
international opportunity for a leading
modern applications expert, such as iSOFT.
DEVELOPING MODERN
INNOVATIVE APPLICATIONS
The success of the iSOFT business to
date, and the ability to capitalise on the
significant market opportunity now
available to us, depends principally on the
strength of our application offering.
A YEAR OF CONSIDERABLE PROGRESS
The year ended 30 April 2004 was a
period of considerable progress for the
iSOFT business. Group revenues grew
63.1% to £149.3m, with the normalised
operating profit* result of £39.5m
representing an increase of 54.4% from
the previous year.
Strong operating cash generation together
with the sale of the former Torex Retail
Division in February 2004 contributed to a
net cash generation before financing of
£71.6m. As a result we are pleased to
report a year end net cash position of
£3.8m. This balance sheet strength will
help the Group take advantage of new
business development opportunities as
they present themselves.
In addition to the positive financial
performance, this year has seen a clear
strengthening of our position in the
international healthcare applications
market. The recent successes in major
regional and national procurements 
have established iSOFT as one of the
leading international healthcare 
application suppliers.
THE INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE
APPLICATIONS MARKET
The need to cap the rate of growth in the
cost of providing healthcare services,
whilst at the same time delivering against
patient demands for improvement in the
quality and effectiveness of the healthcare
treatments they receive, is a challenge
facing every modern economy.
The answer lies in identifying ways to
improve efficiency and reduce the burden
on expensive, scarce resources. In order
to meet this objective, healthcare delivery
networks are forming that are designed to
reduce the load on acute services and
iSOFT applications remain positively
differentiated from competitor offerings 
as a result of constant innovation in
architecture, functionality, utility and the
effective use of technology.
LORENZO, our latest generation 
application, addresses fully the
administrative and clinical information
management requirements of the modern
healthcare economy.
Our ability to maintain this leadership is
due to the expert analysis and design
capability across the Group’s international
operations and, significantly, the strength
of our dedicated offshore software
application development centre in Chennai,
India. Established in January 2001, this
centre is responsible for software code
development and maintenance for all
strategic applications.
The centre represents a major competitive
advantage by bringing world class
technology solutions to market with
unprecedented speed. As a result, we will
continue our commitment to building our
offshore capability aggressively over the
course of the next few years.
A SUBSTANTIAL 
ESTABLISHED BUSINESS
The iSOFT business has established a
substantial presence in a number of
international healthcare systems markets.
At the date of this Annual Report, more
than 1,500 hospital organisations and
other healthcare institutions together with
over 5,000 primary care physicians
depend on iSOFT applications to deliver
care. This user base extends into 14
countries, with representation on 
five continents.
INVESTMENT IN MODERN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS
IS RECOGNISED AS A KEY TOOL IN THE EFFICIENT ORGANISATION
AND DELIVERY OF CARE
* stated before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
page eight
08
The NHS National Programme for
Information Technology (NPfIT) in England,
provided an opportunity to test the strength
of the iSOFT application proposition against
a shortlist of the other leading international
healthcare application vendors. This
procurement process represented arguably
the stiffest test ever applied to the array of
international suppliers who lay claim to
having advanced application solutions
relevant to the needs of modern 
healthcare economies.
The selection approach addressed not 
only the scope of the functional
requirements of healthcare applications,
but also their large scale implementation
and system performance capabilities.
Our significant success in securing the
application provider role in three of the 
five regional contracts awarded under the
NPfIT procurement is testimony to the
completeness and competitiveness of our
applications. It has created an extremely
strong international reference for iSOFT
and has stimulated a significant amount 
of interest from healthcare economies
around the world that are considering
similar IT reform initiatives and 
associated procurements.
NEW INTERNATIONAL 
MARKET OPPORTUNITIES
The success of iSOFT’s international
expansion to date evidences the quality of
the upfront analysis performed on any
prospective individual market opportunity,
the rigour applied in identifying the most
effective means of entry and our strong
track record of execution.
Given the widespread healthcare IT reform
agenda and the international attractiveness
of our application offering, the iSOFT
business is certainly not opportunity
constrained. As we plan and prepare for
further geographic expansion, the challenge
is for us to grow our analytical capability
and maintain our capacity to execute.
Over the years we have developed
considerable experience of operating both
with third party service organisations, as
distributors of our product, and with an
acquisition-led approach to entering a new
geographic market. The decision on
whether to partner, to acquire or to adopt a
combined strategy will be taken on a
region-by-region basis to ensure that the
preferred approach represents that best
suited to the characteristics of a 
particular market.
A key test applied by iSOFT when
evaluating a new geography is whether the
opportunity exists to establish a meaningful
market share in a short period of time and
in doing so gain early traction in generating
an appropriate financial return relative to
the cost of market entry.
We will continue to apply this test
rigorously when identifying relevant 
new markets.
OUTLOOK
Over the course of the next twelve months
we will, in the first instance, develop our
business interests in our established
geographic markets and in doing so drive
the further organic growth of our business.
We will complete are preparation for the
launch of LORENZO in a number of new
geographic markets and, as part of this
preparation, confirm the most appropriate
means of entry and development of 
those markets.
In summary, we expect over the course of
the next year to sustain good growth and
position the Group for further acceleration
of that growth in future years.
The opportunity now clearly exists for
iSOFT to realise its ambition of being the
global leader in the provision of 
healthcare applications. We look forward
with confidence.
Tim Whiston
Chief Executive Officer 09
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
page nine
INNOVATIVE APPLICATIONS FOR HEALTHCARE COMMUNITIES
