 05
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT 2005
A year of delivery
I am pleased to report that the year ended 30 April
2005 was an important year of successful delivery
for the iSOFT Group.  In addition to delivering a
strong financial performance, the Group realised the
synergies anticipated from our merger with Torex,
successfully launched the market-leading LORENZO
set of software applications into both existing and
new international markets and won a number of
important new contracts.
Group revenues grew to £262.0m, an increase of
75.5% from the previous year. Profit before tax,
exceptional items and goodwill amortisation grew
86.1% to £68.5m.  A robust operating cash
performance contributed to net cash generation
before financing of £48.9m.  The resulting year end
net funds position of £56.4m, gives iSOFT sufficient
resources to take advantage of an increasing
number of business development opportunities.
Looking forward, recognition of the key role that
better information management has to play in
improving the efficiency of healthcare provision
worldwide is creating a number of specific
international opportunities for exciting sales 
growth. We plan to take advantage of these, either
through direct sales, partnership with third party
service or technology organisations, or through
acquisition of companies with established access 
to attractive markets. 
The healthcare applications market opportunity
For some time we have developed the Group in
anticipation of modern information systems playing
a pivotal role in the development of more efficient
and effective healthcare economies.  The key
challenge for every major healthcare economy is to
balance increasing costs of healthcare delivery with
the growing demands of ageing populations. 
Our view is now widely accepted and increasing
numbers of healthcare providers are investing in
large scale modern information technology systems
in order to connect up the supply chain.  Some
countries are ahead of others in the procurement
and implementation of modern solutions, but we
are only at the start of the modernisation process.
Most of the work to implement the necessary
systems will be completed in the next five to
ten years.
iSOFT is in an unrivalled position to benefit from
this, having developed the most advanced set of
application software solutions available for the
healthcare market.  We also have the depth of
international experience and expertise required 
to understand the solutions needed by different
healthcare markets, and the scale to continue
developing them. 
As a result, the work that we undertake with our
customers and partners is recognised internationally
as being at the very forefront of the development of
modern healthcare information systems.
Importance of the strategic application set
LORENZO was developed specifically to meet 
the growing international need for modern scalable
healthcare information systems.  We have long
believed that the major healthcare economies face 
a common core set of problems, though each
usually also exhibit a number of individual local
market characteristics. 
Typically, the most substantive area of difference
from country to country results from the funding
models that govern the reimbursement of the 
cost of healthcare provision to the provider.
Consequently, we have developed a comprehensive 
core application set capable of meeting the
standard common elements of healthcare delivery,
while also being flexible enough to be configured 
to suit specific local characteristics.
There is, therefore, great value in a core strategic
application set such as LORENZO, built on a modern
technology platform and designed to meet the
requirements of modernising healthcare economies.
We have achieved the flexibility to adapt LORENZO
For some time we have developed the Group in anticipation 
of modern information systems playing a pivotal role
in the development of more efficient and effective 
healthcare economies. to local requirements by using the latest software
development tools and technical architectures.  
We recognised early that it is simply not possible 
to achieve this by iterating existing legacy software
product code bases constrained by old 
technology platforms.
Available from early 2004, LORENZO was the first
solution on the market targeted to meet the
demanding requirements of healthcare providers
around the world.  It has achieved significant acclaim
from healthcare providers who have performed
detailed procurement evaluations, industry analysts
and the world’s leading technology organisations. 
We have now established a strong market position
and intend to leverage this at a time when demand
for information systems based on international best
practice is growing.
Consistent business strategy
Throughout the financial year, iSOFT has continued 
to be guided by the consistent and clearly defined
business strategy employed since its listing on the
London Stock Exchange in July 2000.  In simple
terms, this strategy has been to focus on the
development of world class software applications,
which address fully the clinical and administrative
information management requirements of healthcare
provider organisations.
As our revenues and profits have grown, we believe
this strategy has now been well-proven.  Furthermore,
management has established a reputation for
effective delivery and execution, both in development
of software application products and the accessing 
of international markets.
In the year ahead, management will continue 
to pursue this strategy, looking to secure market
share leadership in each of our existing territories
and respond to growing international demand by
entering new markets. 
Existing international operations
During the year, our first priority was to develop our
existing international business units and we have
made good progress in introducing LORENZO 
to customers in those markets.  Healthcare
organisations across the world have shown great
interest in our success as application provider to
three of the five regions in the National Programme
for IT in the NHS in England, the world’s first
procurement programme to purchase systems on
behalf of an entire national health community. 
Elsewhere, we achieved a number of notable
successes during the year.
In Germany, further to our success in being selected
to supply systems to Aachen University Hospital, we
are delighted to now have an agreement to supply
LORENZO to the Robert-Bosch-Krankenhaus in
Stuttgart, one of the country’s leading private
healthcare institutions.
In Australia, we have extended our patient
management system supply into Queensland and
we are currently engaged in contract negotiations
for the supply of a state-wide patient administration
system into Victoria.
Finally, in terms of development of existing markets,
I am very pleased to announce that we are engaged
in advanced discussions with Leiden University
Medical Centre with regards to the first delivery of
LORENZO into Holland.
Prospects for international growth
Following the progress of the past few years, 
iSOFT is increasingly being acknowledged as the
leading supplier of modern healthcare applications. 
As a result, either directly or by way of third party
introductions, iSOFT is now invited to tender for
most significant procurements of healthcare
application solutions worldwide.
Our challenge, therefore, is evaluating the
opportunities that arise and, for those that qualify,
to identify the most appropriate means of response.
06 Depending on the nature and size of the opportunity,
it may be more appropriate to respond directly 
or through a partner. 
We continue to make good progress with a 
number of significant current opportunities notably
in Asia Pacific.  
In December 2004, we identified that SingHealth,
the largest cluster of public healthcare institutions in
Singapore, had commenced a formal study to
evaluate a possible roll out of LORENZO across the
cluster. I am now pleased to confirm that iSOFT will
enter into a development partnership with SingHealth.
With this partnership, iSOFT will deliver an initial
solution to SingHealth by December 2005.  We are
delighted to have this opportunity to demonstrate
the capability of a LORENZO-based solution working
in partnership with one of the world’s most
advanced regional healthcare delivery, research and
teaching organisations.
I am also pleased to announce that, further to the
RFI exercise initiated in November 2004 by the
Hospital Authority, the statutory body that manages
all public hospitals in Hong Kong, a solution design
and pilot exercise will be conducted with iSOFT as a
continuation of the Authority’s evaluation of the
options available for the development of their next
generation clinical management system.
Additionally, we continue to examine closely
opportunities for acquisition that would accelerate
entry into a particular market.  iSOFT has a record
of being a discerning buyer.  We are proud of our
ability to select transactions that create value,
execute them and complete integration exercises in
a speedy and efficient manner.
We expect to continue to be presented with 
a large number of potential acquisition opportunities,
but will only take advantage of a transaction if it
stands up to rigorous strategic and financial
analysis.  Any acquisition candidate would have to
either enable us to consolidate an existing market
position, or offer access to a significant new
geographic market for LORENZO.  In the
circumstances, therefore, such a candidate would
typically possess effective sales, application delivery
and service capabilities. 
The Group is well organised and resourced to
respond to business development opportunities.
There is substantial management strength, both 
at Board level and throughout the operational
business units.  The announcement in April of the
appointment of Gavin James as Group Finance
Director adds further valuable experience in
managing international operations, integration of
acquisitions and managing distribution partnership
arrangements between application vendors and IT
services companies.
Outlook
In the coming year, we expect that our application
offering will continue to become increasingly sought
after by the marketplace.  Installations of LORENZO
will grow in number providing further valuable
references for the strength of iSOFT’s market
leadership position.
We are excited about prospects in our traditional
markets of Asia Pacific and Europe, where we are
evaluating a number of major sales opportunities.
We are also now examining the North American
market in greater detail.
The momentum now building in the international
iSOFT proposition, and the growing demand from
the market, provides the basis for further exciting
growth over the coming years.  As a result, we look
forward to the current year with confidence and are
on track for another year of success.
Tim Whiston
Chief Executive Officer
In the coming year, we expect that our application 
offering will continue to become increasingly sought 
after by the marketplace.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT 2005
07 08
Surgeon.  I want
patients to benefit
from the best
knowledge available.
Clinical excellence
should be part of the
standard service. It has
to be built deep into
the fabric of care
systems and processes.
