 02
Dear Shareholder,
In the year ended 30 April 2005, iSOFT made
considerable progress towards its objective of
being the global leader in the provision of
innovative software solutions for healthcare
provider organisations.  Our results for the period
are testimony to this progress with good growth 
in turnover and profit, and further significant
strengthening of our working capital position.
Leadership in our market depends on the relevance
of our software solutions and their acceptance by
our existing customers and adoption by new ones.
In these regards we can demonstrate substantial
advancement as our LORENZO application set
progressively replaces our traditional software
portfolio in our customer base, and continues its
high success rate in new procurements in our
chosen markets.  The year ended 30 April 2005
has seen a number of landmark decisions in favour
of LORENZO over our international competitors,
which bodes well for the future as iSOFT looks to
extend its geographic reach.
During the year we have made extensive
enhancements to LORENZO to allow flexible
deployments in different healthcare settings.  
At the functional level, the vast majority of
LORENZO enhancements are aimed at giving
clinicians direct benefits from working with the
application, particularly in patient-facing settings.
We are pleased with the reactions received from
clinicians to the care management innovations
being introduced in LORENZO. Their feedback
heavily influences our research and development
direction and priorities.
The impressive progress of LORENZO owes much
to our extensive off-shore Product Development
Centre in Chennai, India.  Access to the large pool
of IT talent in that location has been essential in
developing the highly organised and productive
software development organisation that iSOFT
now possesses.  At 30 April 2005 our workforce in
Chennai numbered 956 software specialists. 
Following on from our success in Chennai, I am
also pleased to announce the opening of our new
Solution Centre in Hyderabad, India.  This centre
has been established to work on the packaging
and configuration of LORENZO for deployment in
diverse international healthcare settings. 
We expect to host our growing number of third
party implementation partners at this location 
to work collaboratively on future new LORENZO
based solutions.
In the UK, at our new Manchester Group
headquarters, we have now completed a
dedicated demonstration centre for LORENZO.
This ‘NUCLEUS’ facility will be aimed at existing
and prospective customers, to allow them to see
the full functionality of LORENZO including its
interoperability with third party applications,
diagnostic medical equipment and new and
emerging device technologies.  This facility will also
host investor days that will allow our shareholders
to appreciate more closely the value of iSOFT’s
work in advancing the quality of healthcare in its
selected markets.
Organisationally, the year ended 30 April 2005 
has been one of restructuring and subsequent
consolidation following the final regulatory
clearance of the merger with Torex in April 2004.  
The year ended 30 April 2005 has seen a number of landmark
decisions in favour of LORENZO over our international competitors,
which bodes well for the future as iSOFT looks to extend its
geographic reach. The successful integration of that business has
provided a strong middle management team to
support our current workloads and the next phase
of development for the iSOFT business.  
However, we continue to take important steps to
strengthen further our senior management team.
At Board level, we have already announced 
Gavin James as our new Group Finance Director.  
I am delighted that Gavin has agreed to join the
iSOFT executive team from his role as Finance
Director of Morse plc.  We are already benefiting
significantly from his considerable, relevant public
company experience.  We also announced during
the year, promotion to the Board for Ravi Kumar
as Chief Technology Officer.  This recognises not
only the outstanding contribution made by Ravi
to the development of our application offering,
but also acknowledges the importance of
product and technology decisions in our business
strategy formulation.
Further to the executive appointments, I am also
able to announce changes to the non-executive
members of the iSOFT Group Board.  I am pleased
to confirm the appointment to the Board of Ken
Lever as a non-executive director.  Ken is currently
Finance Director of Tomkins plc.  His experience of
international operations and his independent
financial perspectives will be of great value to
iSOFT.  Sir Digby Jones, who has been a 
non-executive director since our listing on the
London Stock Exchange in July 2000, will not seek
re-election at iSOFT Group’s forthcoming Annual
General Meeting in July 2005.  The Board and
management of iSOFT are grateful to Sir Digby for
his guidance and support, and are pleased that he
will continue to be available as an advisor to 
the Group.
Finally, I am able to confirm my own intention to
stand down as Non-executive Chairman and from
the Board on the appointment of a successor
during the course of the current financial year.  
I am privileged to have been involved in the iSOFT
success story, firstly as Chief Executive and more
latterly as Non-executive Chairman.  The next
Chairman will lead iSOFT into a period of
international growth as befits our standing as a
world class software application vendor.  The
Board has commenced a process to recruit a new
Chairman with the best possible experience in line
with our strategic direction.  
In conclusion, I congratulate the management and
all the employees of iSOFT for another year of
outstanding performance.  The strong demand for
our software solutions has meant a lot of hard
work for our staff.  Their commitment, diligence
and invention remain key factors in our success.
Patrick Cryne
Non-executive Chairman
03
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN 2005 Pharmacist. I want to 
be working with patients.
Accurate information is
vital to medicines
management, now I can
use it to improve the
quality of care I deliver.
04
