 Isotron plc annual report and accounts 2002 6.0
chief executive’s review
Operations
The year has been dominated by the
acquisition of Gammaster, which has
transformed Isotron into the market
leader for contract sterilisation in
Europe and Asia.  The purchase was
completed in mid-January, since
when the improved international
network has already begun to show
benefits.  A substantial multi-year
contract has been signed with a
European based customer who is
expected to take up most of the
spare capacity of our Thailand plant
as well as provide new volume for
Europe. 
The integration of Gammaster has
progressed well with changes to
the management structure
complete and the extension of the
Isotron brand across the new
territories now being implemented.
Ireland was the only country with
management overlap and the two
sites are now firmly under one
management.
The year has been
dominated by the
acquisition of Gammaster
We had new investments
coming on stream in three
locations
In the summer of 2001 we had new
investments coming on stream in three
locations.  
The gamma plant in Malaysia began trading
in August and has had a very successful
first year of operation.  This plant was
established as part of a multi-year contract
with a major customer and is now starting
to process volumes from other customers
in the region.  The ethylene oxide lines at
that plant were commissioned in the last
quarter of the year and customer validations
were progressing at the year-end.
The new electron beam plant at Daventry
has also been running successfully since
August 2001 and volumes built quickly to
one shift a day.
Three new ethylene oxide lines were
brought on stream in Ireland. They have
contributed to profits in the year not only by
processing new volumes but also by
improving processing efficiency across the
whole site. 7.0 chief executive’s review
John Barker, Chief Executive  Isotron plc annual report and accounts 2002 8.0
Operations continued
A successful refurbishment of the
Bradford gamma plant (origin 1978)
involving a complete replacement of all
the machinery and control systems was
carried out mid-year. The result is a
plant with more capacity and better
efficiency as well as up to date control
and safety systems.
Following the consolidation of Isotron
and Gammaster, the new Group is now
managed primarily on a regional basis.
However, to drive forward the benefits
derived from the larger Group a number
of senior corporate managers have
been appointed with specific Group
responsibilities, for example to develop
multinational marketing.  All these
positions have been filled by existing
staff.  A General Manager will be
appointed to be responsible for all UK
operations. This is a key role with the
UK generating approximately 40% of
Group revenue.
Markets in the year
The core business of the enlarged Group
continues to be medical – the contract
sterilisation of single use disposables,
and we were successful in securing new
medical volumes in Ireland and Malaysia
in particular.  The biological market, more
heavily represented in mainland Europe,
is focused particularly on packaging for
the food and healthcare industries.  In
the UK this market was flat but in
mainland Europe volumes were higher.
The chemical market was significantly
down during the year with the telecoms
and electrical engineering industries hit
by the economic downturn in these
sectors.  However, signs of a tentative
improvement in these areas were starting
to show in the summer of 2002.
chief executive’s review continued
Isotron’s key market 
is medical - the contract
sterilisation of single use
disposables
disposable sterile theatre garments
packing catheters to be sterilised 9.0 chief executive’s review
our skilled team will provide the most effective
sterilisation solutions. 
As noted earlier Isotron’s key market is
associated with the healthcare industry,
in particular with sterile medical
devices.  Isotron’s customers serve
markets across the globe although the
majority of output is destined for
Europe, with North America being the
next most important geographical
region.  Key manufacturers in the
industry are reporting annual growth
rates in the range of 5-12%, this range
hiding some extreme variations.  Those
in the novel product sectors such as
orthopaedic implants and stents show
growth in the 20-25% range whilst
those focused on the commodity end of
the product range are reporting more
modest growth rates.  Isotron’s
customer base is drawn from across
the range of manufacturers in this
industry.
Across the new Group we have in
excess of 1,000 customers with the
largest accounting for less than 5% of
turnover. In recent years sales prices
have generally been weak however,
during the year under review, some
price increases were implemented in the
UK and Ireland.  Selling prices will be
influenced by local conditions but
increasingly agreements with customers
operating on a multinational basis will
be set in an international context.
During the second half-year we
developed a number of initiatives which
has resulted in a significant new
contract focused on South East Asia.
The capabilities we now possess for
processing in Malaysia, Thailand and
across Europe provide a very strong
market position for the future.
international coverage Isotron plc annual report and accounts 2002 10.0
United Kingdom
The Group has a broad technology base
in the UK, comprising five gamma
radiation plants, three high energy
electron beam processing units, one
ethylene oxide facility and two
microbiological laboratories. We also
operate a pathology laboratory based in
South Wales. The processing site at
Daventry, Northamptonshire, is the only
dual technology sterilisation facility in the
UK, following the commissioning of a
new 10 MeV electron beam alongside the
gamma radiation plant.  The sterilisation
of medical devices represents the UK’s
primary market sector.  The UK remains
an important location for the
development and manufacture of
healthcare products.
Ireland
The Group’s presence in Ireland is located
on two sites at Tullamore, Co. Offaly, and
Westport, Co Mayo.  Westport specialises
in gamma radiation whilst Tullamore
provides EtO sterilisation complemented
by a significant microbiological testing
laboratory. Business in Ireland is
dominated by large, American
multinational companies that have
established major European manufacturing
sites over the past twenty years.  Ireland
offers, in particular, low corporate taxes
and an educated work force that is
technologically adept and adaptable.  The
medical market is expected to continue to
grow providing further opportunity to
develop Isotron’s service offering and
presence in the market.
The increased size of the
Isotron Group has
resulted in a strong
organisation that offers a
multinational service
chief executive’s review continued
electron flux International coverage 11.0 chief executive’s review
Rest of Europe 
Isotron has gamma processing plants near
Munich in Germany and Marseille in France,
and three gamma plants located at two
sites in Holland; Ede near the German
border, and Etten-Leur near the Belgian
border. In addition to their national markets
these plants service customers from Spain,
Italy, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and
Belgium. In Sweden Isotron operates both
gamma and electron beam facilities. The
gamma plant is uneconomical and will be
closed in the new financial year. The
electron beam plant caters for the medical
and electronic industries. A growing
network of plants, located near major
arterial routes, enables the Company 
to satisfy its customers’ needs 
as they expand.
Asia and Africa
Isotron operates a dual technology
facility with both gamma and EtO plants
near Penang, Malaysia, and a gamma
plant near Bangkok in Thailand.  These
two facilities, which have been built
within the last three years, service a
growing number of major multinational
organisations with manufacturing
facilities located in the region. Isotron’s
gamma plant in South Africa is sited near
Johannesburg and is the largest contract
facility in the country.  
microbiological testing
cobalt 60 sources
Isotron is compliant with the highest
applicable standards
Critical mass
The increased size of the Isotron
Group, and its geographical spread,
has resulted in a strong organisation
that offers a multinational service.
The business is focused primarily
around sterilisation or microbial
control and Isotron seeks to be the
partner of choice in the provision of
these services.  The steadiness of
the healthcare market provides a
solid platform for Isotron’s business
in each country.   Isotron plc annual report and accounts 2002 12.0
Plant design
Isotron continues to invest in state-of-the-art
processing plant and technologies.  Each
investment requires an initial multi-million
pound outlay thereby creating a high fixed
cost base. The speed at which initial
revenues are generated is therefore of key
concern to management when making
investment decisions.
Isotron operates well established and proven
technologies.  The investments are designed
to be operated for many years and
technological developments are
incorporated as part of planned upgrade
and improvement programmes.
The in-house expertise that comes from the
newly enlarged Group means that any new
facility can be tailor made for the country
and types of products to be treated.  The
nature of the processes and sophistication
of equipment result in there being a trade-off
between cost efficiency and flexibility.    
Isotron has an engineering section that
controls the building of new facilities.  In
some cases the plant will be supplied as a
turnkey project. Isotron now has the
capability to design and assemble the
necessary plant, and manage installation 
in-house.
Quality standards
Each of Isotron’s sites is certified to comply
with the quality standards that are required
for medical device and pharmaceutical
manufacture.  The facilities comply with
international and national standards
including ISO 9002, EN46002 and others
as appropriate.  For example Isotron
complies with EN550 for ethylene oxide
processing and EN552 for radiation
sterilisation.  Inspections by Notified Bodies
ensure compliance with standards and
guidelines applicable to the countries and
regions in which Isotron operates. In
addition Isotron is subject to inspection by
the FDA in relation to products being
manufactured for the North American
market.  In-house experts participate on
various national and international technical
and specialist committees that continuously
develop these standards and set the levels
of technical excellence for the industry.
Isotron continues to
invest in state-of-the-art
processing plant and
technologies
chief executive’s review continued
pharmaceutical
cosmetics
Technology 13.0 chief executive’s review
Healthcare manufacturers operate in a
highly regulated environment and are
keenly aware of developments amongst
their regulators and the potential
consequent impact upon their
businesses.  For example it has been
recently announced that the regulatory
body in the UK, the Medical Devices
Agency (MDA) is to merge with the
Medicines Control Agency (MCA).  
There is concern that this development
could lead to the application of
pharmaceutical industry controls to
medical devices, a development which
could impact on manufacturing cost,
product development lead times and
industry flexibility.  The progress in
mutual recognition of inspection bodies
in Europe by the Food and Drugs
Administration (FDA) however, offers the
prospect of simplification, and potentially
reduction, in the number of replicated
quality inspections performed by
international bodies.  Isotron was subject
to joint FDA/BSI inspection during the
year as part of the development of the
Mutual Recognition Agreement.
Technical support services
The Group offers a variety of laboratory
services to help customers satisfy
regulatory requirements.  Working in
partnership with customers, Isotron
develops procedures to demonstrate
that Isotron’s customers are complying
with the relevant national or international
standards.  Additionally, Isotron provides
technical support services for product
development or manufacturing activities.
Isotron’s input might include advice on
the choice of materials, validation of the
sterilisation method and the assessment
of some aspects of the manufacturing
environment.
‘hands on’ staff deliver quality and service
technical competencies are strengthened
by training Isotron plc annual report and accounts 2002 14.0
Market diversity
Each market segment served by Isotron
requires a process solution appropriate to
the products and the markets in which they
are used.  Isotron has at its disposal a
range of process capabilities to satisfy the
diverse demands from each unique market
segment. This capability is one of the
important factors that differentiates Isotron
from other European contract service
providers. The expertise gained in working
with the key players in each of the market
segments will enable knowledge to be
diffused across the organisation which can
be applied to enhance customer
satisfaction.
Healthcare
Within the customer base, the most
important is the segment encompassing
the manufacturers of single-use sterile
medical devices.  Products processed
include such items as surgeons’ gloves,
scalpel blades, surgical drapes and
gowns used in operating theatres and
various disposable items including
catheters and needles.  The manufacturers
of these products place heavy demands 
on the quality systems and operating
procedures to ensure they satisfy
international and national standards. 
The same sterilisation processes are 
utilised in some applications within the
pharmaceutical industry. Finished products,
containers, cap and closures are all
represented within the products and
components passing through facilities.
Similarly, pharmaceutical ingredients,
excipients, and raw materials may be
processed with ‘sub sterilisation’ treatments
in order to ensure a low and controlled
microbiological profile before use by the
manufacturer. As with medical devices,
pharmaceutical manufacturers place similar,
and in some instances more complex,
demands on quality and production systems.
The manufacture of the majority of
pharmaceuticals is controlled by various
licensing systems, and manufacturers require
that Isotron in turn holds appropriate licences
and is subject to relevant inspection.
Isotron has at its disposal
a range of process
capabilities to satisfy the
diverse demands from
each unique market
segment
chief executive’s review continued
strategic planning
herbs & spices
Markets  15.0 chief executive’s review
Other market sectors also have
requirements to reduce and control
microbiological contamination in order to
protect the product or the end user.
Examples include mascara brushes from the
cosmetic industry (to avoid introducing
contamination close to the eye). Similarly
within the food packaging industry, dairy
product containers may be treated to control
contamination in order to ensure shelf life.
The industry has been trying to resolve a
number of issues, for example over the
ongoing challenge to DEHP , the plasticiser
used in the vast majority of medical grade
PVC, and the ongoing debate over the re-
use of single use items.  The former
impacts on a material, which through its
versatility has become a cornerstone of the
medical device industry.  The latter is a
practice developed in some cases in
response to the perceived cost of single
use devices, but in many instances does
not recognise the ethical issues as well as
the risks and potential legal costs
associated with the practice of re-use.
networking and building firm business
relationships
prosthetic hip joint
John Barker  Chief Executive
4 September 2002
Polymer modification
A market segment of importance to
Isotron utilises the same process
(irradiation) but for a completely different
application.  In this instance the
requirement is not to eliminate or lower the
microbiological profile but to modify the
properties of different polymers.
Processing PVC covered wire under an
electron beam alters the physical structure
at the molecular level making it more
resistant to heat and abrasion.  This
process, known as cross-linking, is also
used to induce the memory effect in heat
shrink tubing.  The markets to which this
application is relevant include automotive,
printing, telecoms and semiconductors. 
Laboratory testing
Frequently customers will require
assistance in the area of microbiological
testing and analysis.  Isotron employs
microbiologists with the skills to develop
test regimes and methodologies to support
Isotron’s customers. These laboratory
services are particularly concerned with
providing data to demonstrate the efficacy of
the sterilisation process. Furthermore the
laboratory provides an extensive range of
support services for smaller manufacturers
with limited in-house capabilities. These may
include training, audit, and environmental
analysis. 
Finally, through JMJ Laboratories, the Group
provides pathology test services to the
occupational health sector. Applications
would include routine health screens as well
as testing for drug abuse among key
workers in safety critical industries.
