 08
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Chief Executive’s statement
This annual report reflects on 2014 – a year in which the fourth 
quarter saw everything change. We completed the acquisition  
of Foster Wheeler, created a new operating model for our 
business – designed for the future – and we created a new 
organisation with a clear vision, a strong identity and a culture 
hungry for success.
Our vision is clear. We want to be the most trusted partner for 
our customers by consistently delivering excellence – bringing 
together the knowledge, expertise and skills of our people from 
across our network.
Whilst I will cover the recent performance of the business, 
much of my statement will look forward as we seek to create 
sustainable, stable growth and to deliver the potential which  
I believe we have at Amec Foster Wheeler.
2014 results
2014 was a year of resilient delivery for us, both financially  
and operationally – despite the challenging backdrop of 
economic uncertainty, reducing capex and falling commodity 
prices. We have delivered a T rading Profit
1
 of £321m, on flat 
revenues of £3,993m, and we have delivered our 19th year  
of dividend growth.
Our cash conversion rate
1
 was 88% and adjusted earnings 
per share
1
 of 79.5p. Ian McHoul, our Chief Financial Officer, 
discusses our financial performance in more depth on page 30.
Our will to win
Ahead of the deal closing we were able to prepare for ‘day one’ . 
So we were really able to hit the ground running – announcing 
several contract wins in the first few weeks, some of which are 
detailed below. 
We have created a skilled and experienced team of around 
40,000 people. These colleagues are our greatest asset, and we 
will continue to focus on their development, mobility and our 
new employer brand, as we want to be the company for whom 
people want to work. 
We have to deliver for our customers. Our good customer 
relations and execution skills have won some contract awards 
and we have further nurtured and enhanced relationships with 
our existing and potential clients. 
A great example is our recently announced Anagold Madencilik 
contract win in T urkey, where we are contracted to provide 
front-end engineering services for the expansion of the Çöpler 
Gold Mine. This perfectly demonstrates the power of our 
combination, leveraging the proven gold processing expertise  
of the AMEC team and Foster Wheeler’s highly regarded  
T urkish operation and successful project delivery track record  
in the country.
Samir Brikho 
Chief Executive 
W e have the will to win, the desire to 
succeed and, in the newly created Amec 
F oster Wheeler , the right combination  
to achieve our true potential.
Çöpler
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 169 to 172) Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
09
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Additional information
Strong cash conversion, 
demonstrating our 
continuing financial 
discipline.
W e have deliberately 
diversified our business 
across energy and 
power markets and this 
remains our strategy.
The desire to succeed
Success for any company is not just about the numbers.  
For Amec Foster Wheeler, it also means we have to be recognised 
as a company that listens to its customers, understands market 
challenges and is prepared to change. We have to propose  
new ways of thinking, better quality of delivery, and offer higher 
predictability of project delivery, on time and on budget. 
We operate in complex arenas, designing, delivering and 
maintaining strategic and complex assets for a wide range of 
customers throughout the global energy and related sectors.
Our largest market remains Oil & Gas, and we are operating 
across the whole value chain from production through to 
refining, processing and distribution of derivative products. 
This significantly enhances our capability to service customers 
and – if we make the most of our new platform by working 
collaboratively, partnering effectively, and providing the best 
possible skills to deliver for our customers – this puts us in the 
frame for projects that neither AMEC nor Foster Wheeler would 
have won as separate companies. 
We have long recognised the benefits of diversity. We encourage 
it in our workforce, in our thinking when solving customers’ 
problems, and in our strategy. All our end markets have long-
term growth potential – but they are also all cyclical. That is 
why we deliberately maintain strong and established positions 
in mining, clean energy, power generation, environment and 
infrastructure alongside the oil and gas market. 
And as an employer, success is to see our employees being 
engaged, inspired, committed and accountable. Our people 
need to be excited about our future, living our values, fostering 
a culture of collaboration, transparency and honesty, helping 
each other with the client being the focal point.
And our customers need to see that in the way we operate  
on their behalf.
Amec Foster Wheeler is proud to be delivering the Engineering, 
Procurement, Construction Management (EPCM) contract for 
Swakop Uranium’s Husab Project in Namibia in joint venture 
with T enova Bateman. We have deployed a highly-skilled project 
team, who have amassed over 10 million man-hours working 
on the mine. Once completed, Husab will be the second largest 
uranium mine in the world.
The right combination
Amec Foster Wheeler has three main stakeholders – our 
shareholders, our customers and our employees – and we 
have to deliver excellence to all of them by creating the right 
environment for success.
We have identified increased deal synergies from $75m to 
$125m and our newly introduced operating model (see page 16) 
is already bearing fruit. With more intelligent use of our  
High Value Execution Centres we can further support the 
businesses whilst recognising and managing the project risks 
through our Identify, Acquire, Deliver process (see below).
£6.3bn order book. 10
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
We are also not compromising on safety. This remains our 
paramount focus and we have again run a company-wide Safety 
First campaign at the start of the year. 
An illustration of our dedication here can be seen in the work we 
are doing for a new rubber plant on Jurong Island, Singapore. 
This complex project, the largest of its kind in the world, involves 
state-of-art technologies and compact design that demands a 
highly committed and collaborative project team to embrace 
the challenges and deliver excellence, with approximately six 
million safe man-hours.
Achieving our potential
2014 saw our Global Power Group rated the number one global 
market position for the supply of Circulating Fluidised Bed 
(CFB) boilers and Heat Recovery Steam Generators. 
Add to this industry plaudits for our work in solar and nuclear 
energy, oil & gas and mining and you can see we have a firm 
foundation from which to build.
However, understanding and managing our project 
performance is a prerequisite of delivering excellence to our 
customers and providing governance. So the Group Project 
Review Committee meets quarterly to better understand the 
performance of key projects within Amec Foster Wheeler and  
to ensure they are meeting our clients’ expectations.
The Group Leadership T eam (see page 75) has been expanded 
to incorporate the new functions of Strategy and Business 
Development and Project Delivery. We have changed the way 
we win work, and Business Development has an increased 
prominence throughout our business. We have created a 
consistent structure throughout the business units which 
will aid understanding and global collaboration between the 
regions, units and functions.
Emphasising our quality controls, we have introduced our new 
Identify, Acquire, and Deliver process, with clear decision rights 
and roles for Strategy and Business Development, Operations, 
and the functions in winning and executing work. There are 
three key decision gates: 
 X pursue/not pursue – to prioritise leads and opportunities  
with good strategic fit and to align on optimal resourcing 
solutions early in the process;
 X bid/no bid – to ensure all requirements of responding to  
a tender are understood and can be met; and
 X permission to submit – to ensure that a fully defined and 
approved proposal is formally issued to the customer.
We have a new sense of purpose and intend to build to achieve 
our true potential.
Chief Executive’s statement continued
2014 saw our Global Power 
Group rated the number one 
global market position for 
the supply of Circulating 
Fluidised Bed (CFB) boilers 
and Heat Recovery Steam 
Generators.
My aim is for Amec 
F oster Wheeler to 
emerge from the 
current economic 
situation stronger than 
our industry peers. 
Our largest market remains 
Oil & Gas, and we are 
operating across the whole 
value chain from production 
through to refining, 
processing and distribution 
of derivative products. Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
11
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Additional information
Outlook
Commodity price falls are impacting both our Oil & Gas and 
Mining businesses. We have seen price decreases of up to 
60% impact several of our projects and customers adjust their 
capital expenditure, even deferring some projects.
Current economic conditions are undoubtedly challenging and 
an unclear pricing outlook implies further difficult times ahead 
in some of our key markets. However, I believe that the winners 
in our industry will be those who add value to their clients,  
in good times and in bad. Despite being a new company,  
Amec Foster Wheeler’s heritage goes back over 150 years and 
our customer service model has been built to operate through 
such fluctuations. 
Undoubtedly customers will seek reduced engineering project 
costs and refined proposals; we have to continue to engage with 
our customers to satisfy these needs. We will need to provide 
greater simplicity in our innovative solutions and focus on more 
standardised delivery alongside specific bespoke offerings  
to ensure projects are sanctioned by our customers. 
We understand the challenges, we have reinvented ourselves 
and we are ready and capable of proposing such solutions, 
to partner with our customers and make money despite the 
economic pressures. 
And my aim is for Amec Foster Wheeler to emerge from the 
current economic situation stronger than our industry peers, 
with a business that is based on a more cost-effective, stable 
and sustainable growth platform, as the partner of choice  
for our customers.
 
Samir Brikho 
Chief Executive 
26 March 2015
I believe that the winners  
in our industry will be those 
who add value to their 
clients, in good times and 
in bad. The Samcheok green power project 
marks a significant development in  
clean coal power .
After a comprehensive study and 
evaluation of the technology options, 
Korean Southern P ower chose us due 
to our advanced technology experience, 
coupled with our capability and  
track record to deliver a large-scale  
quality product.
12
By 2016, four of our 550 
megawatt CFB boilers will 
produce 2,100 megawatts 
of electricity from coal, 
biomass and recycled 
materials, setting a new 
standard for clean, large-
scale power generation. Connected
excellence
Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
13
through 
engineering 
innovations
