 06
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Chairman’s statement
In the closing months of 2014 we saw a fundamental change  
in our business with the completion of the transformational 
Foster Wheeler deal. It brings greater strength and depth 
across many markets and provides your Company with access 
throughout the oil & gas value chain. The dramatic drop  
in global oil prices will prove an unfortunately-timed testing 
ground for our new business proposition over the coming  
years – however, I and your board retain complete confidence  
in your Company’s potential.
We begin 2015 with a new name, reflecting the power of both 
brands; a new identity, which encapsulates the depth and 
breadth of our potential; and a new culture, which meshes the 
best of both breeds and will provide the bedrock of our future 
operational success. These are covered in more detail in the 
Chief Executive’s statement.
Y our board
The board of directors is responsible for governing the 
organisation by establishing broad policies and objectives, 
monitoring the performance of the management team, 
ensuring the availability of adequate financial resources, 
and being held accountable to you, the shareholders, for the 
Company’s performance and longer term potential. 
We support the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) and 
believe we have complied with the provisions of the September 
2012 edition throughout the year ended 31 December 2014. 
We continue to focus on diversity within our business.  
Not just the diversity of human characteristics and skills,  
but also diversity of thought – as we believe that part of our  
role is to constantly challenge the business to ensure we are  
at the top of our game. We must, of course, continue to deliver 
the highest possible standards in safety, collaboration and value 
creation. We must also ensure that we nurture an environment 
where new thinking and creative solutions can thrive for our 
customers. The complementary merging of our operations  
with those of Foster Wheeler not only enhances this potential, 
but it also provides greater resilience to market cyclicality.
In November, upon the closing of the Foster Wheeler offer,  
we appointed Stephanie Newby to the board and to the 
company’s audit and health, safety, security, environmental  
and ethics committees. Stephanie was an independent  
non-executive director of Foster Wheeler and she brings  
a wealth of boardroom expertise and experience of being  
a director of a company listed on a US stock exchange – as your 
Company now has a listing of its American Depositary Shares  
on the New Y ork Stock Exchange.
John Connolly
Chairman
2014 was a year of quantum change  
for our business. Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
07
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Additional information
Since the year-end we have announced other board changes.  
In February Kent Masters joined the board. Kent was the  
CEO and a board director of Foster Wheeler. In February we 
also announced that Simon Thompson will step down from the 
board at the upcoming annual general meeting after serving 
six years as a director of the Company. Simon also holds the 
important roles of Senior Independent Director and chairman 
of the remuneration committee. I am very grateful for Simon’s 
contribution to the board during a period of significant change 
in your company. Neil Carson will assume the roles of senior 
independent director and chairman of the remuneration 
committee at the conclusion of the annual general meeting  
on 14 May 2015. The board has commenced a process to recruit 
one or two new non-executive directors. Announcements on  
the new directors will be made in the next few months.
Our priorities
Each of your directors has been actively engaged in our board 
meetings and has contributed to debates on future strategy 
and direction. In 2015 the board will continue with a programme 
of regular engagements with management teams across the 
group. Our priorities going forward include monitoring the 
execution of the integration plans and the implementation of 
the new operating model referred to in the Chief Executive’s 
statement. Recognising the enlargement and changes in the 
group, combined with the challenging markets in our sector, 
a significant priority for the board is working with the Group 
Leadership T eam to set the strategy and medium-term business 
plan for the Group. 
Y our Company’s performance
Across our four markets we have seen a full range of conditions 
in 2014, ranging from tough and challenging, to robust, stable 
and growing. In these markets our trading profit
1
 was £321m.  
A further indication of our belief in the model and your 
company’s potential is the proposed final dividend of 28.5p,  
making a total of 43.3p per share for the year – a 3% increase 
on 2013 and dividend cover
1
 of 1.8 times. If approved at the 
Company’s annual general meeting on 14 May 2015, it will 
be paid on 2 July 2015 to those shareholders on the register 
at 29 May 2015. It remains the board’s intention to continue 
with a progressive dividend policy. 
Conclusion
I and my fellow directors remain strongly convinced of the 
potential for your company. We believe that Amec Foster 
Wheeler has the right strategy, a strong customer base,  
an improved customer proposition and the right skills for  
it to achieve its true potential.
On your behalf I would like to thank Samir Brikho and his 
management team and all of the 40,000 people in Amec  
Foster Wheeler for their valued contribution to date and  
their future potential.
John Connolly 
Chairman 
26 March 2015
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 169 to 172)
Dividend per share for the year
43.3p
Adjusted diluted EPS for 2014
1
79.5p
Amec F oster Wheeler 
has in place a strong, 
highly competent board 
that performs well.
