  Group performance
I am pleased to report record results for ITE Group plc which demonstrate the underlying
strength of our business.  Turnover and Headline Profit before tax for the year were £58.9 
million and £15.5 million respectively.  Headline diluted earnings per share grew by 75% to 4.2p
per share and diluted earnings per share improved to 3.0p per share on Profit before tax of
£12.3m compared to a loss of 1.0p per share on a Loss before tax of £0.4m in 2002.  The
Group has a strong balance sheet and ended the year with net cash of £22.1 million.
Strategic progress
We pursued a number of organic growth opportunities during the year, expanding our portfolio
of events in sixteen countries and enhancing our major brands. Recently ITE has agreed terms
with Expocentr, its principal Moscow venue, to extend the terms of its co-operation agreement
covering our key events for a further five years.
We have continued to focus our business on its most profitable areas of activity.  Since the
year-end we have sold all of our interests in the Czech Republic and Slovakia to Incheba a.s., the
owner of the other 50% interest.  The effect of the floods in Prague in August 2002 had 
shifted the focus of the Czech business towards investment in and refurbishment of exhibition
halls.
Board and management
There have been a number of changes to your Board during the year.  Russell Taylor was
appointed Group Finance Director and Company Secretary in March.  Russell is a Chartered
Accountant whose previous experience included eight years in the exhibitions industry.  In July,
Edward Strachan, Managing Director of our St Petersburg and Central Asia businesses was
appointed to the Board.  Edward has been with the Group for over ten years and now brings his
breadth of experience of our industry to the Board.
Alex Bernstein resigned from the Board in June. Alex had significantly contributed to building
our business in Moscow. Sir Hugh Bidwell, Deputy Chairman, stepped down from the Board in
September after seven years with ITE and Alexander Rozin resigned from the Board in November
following the sale of our Czech and Slovakian interests. The Board would like to thank these
Directors for their contributions to the development of the Group over the years.
In July, Marco Sodi replaced Jeffrey Stevenson as one of the Non-executive Directors nominated
by Veronis Suhler Stevenson.  Marco is actively involved in the European media sector. Michael
Hartley was appointed a Non-executive Director in October.  Michael is currently Chairman of
Dawson International plc and brings extensive experience of managing and growing 
internationally diversified groups of businesses.
In addition to the Board changes, we have streamlined and strengthened our management team.
I should like, on behalf of the Board, to thank all our staff for the very considerable effort that
they have made during the year.  We are particularly appreciative of their support during a 
period of organisational and structural change.
Dividend
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 1.1p per share bringing the total dividend for
the year to 1.6p per share. This represents a real increase of 6.7% in the annual dividend in line
with the Board’s progressive dividend policy.
Outlook
The Group enjoys a leading position in the Moscow, St Petersburg and Central Asian exhibition
markets.  We believe that these areas will continue to experience economic growth thereby
underpinning the expansion of our business.  We are opening opportunities for organic growth
by taking our existing brands and core products into new emerging markets.  With these strong
foundations, we are confident that we can add value and continue the good financial 
performance of this year.
Iain Paterson
Chairman
8 December 2003
Chairman’s Statement
