  10
ITE Group plc 
Annual Report 2007
Group performance
ITE has announced an excellent set of results for the year 
ended 30 September 2007. Reported revenues improved in 
our stronger biennial year by 20% to £99.1 million and headline
profit before tax improved by 35% to £35.3 million (2006: 
£26.0 million). Fully diluted headline earnings per share for the
year was 9.4p (2006: 7.0p). Reported profits before tax were
£33.7 million (2006: £24.8 million) and fully diluted earnings
per share improved by over 30% to 9.0p (2006: 6.7p).
Strategic progress
The Group’ s primary strategy over the last five years has been to
maximise the organic growth opportunities that the Group has
earned through strong market positions in the emerging and
developing markets of Russia and Central Asia. Our success in
achieving this aim has come from the single mindedness with
which we have focused on this objective. As a result ITE has
enjoyed five years of continuous growth in revenues and profits
and, reflecting this success, ITE became a constituent company
of the FTSE 250 index in June this year . 
Highlights of the year included MosBuild, the Group’ s market-
leading construction event in Moscow , which this year was the
largest commercial exhibition held in Russia and is today one of
the world’ s leading events of its kind. The Moscow International
Oil and Gas event and the Kazakhstan International Oil and Gas
conference also demonstrated their credentials as world class
events for the international community . Also important this year
was the signing of an agreement extending our venue rights in
Almaty , Kazakhstan through to 2017. This agreement confirms
ITE’ s position in the Kazakhstan exhibition business at a time 
of economic health and expansion for the region.
The dedication and loyalty of our hard working staff together
with the support of our venue partners have been important
contributors to the overall success of the Group. Looking
forward, I see another year of growth based upon these
relationships and infrastructures we have assiduously built over
the last five years. The balance sheet is strong and the Group 
is well positioned to take advantage of any new opportunities
that arise in the year . 
Board and management
As previously announced, Ian T omkins, Chief Executive Officer
for the last five years, stepped down from the Board on 
3 September to return to Australia with his family . He left the
Company with a solid foundation and the Group will reap the
benefits of his stewardship. We have been fortunate to recruit
Bill Dye, who succeeds Ian as Chief Executive Officer . Bill’ s
experience encompasses entrepreneurial business building and
corporate management skills of a FTSE 100 company . Bill brings
a new dimension to the Company and the Board looks forward 
to the next stage of ITE’ s development under his direction.
Sir Jeremy Hanley joined the Board of ITE as a non-executive on
12 March 1998 when the Group first listed on the London Stock
Exchange. After nearly ten years of loyal service and hard work
Sir Jeremy will, under corporate governance guidelines, be
stepping down from the Board after the Company’ s next Annual
General Meeting in March. All the Board extend their thanks 
to Sir Jeremy for his support and guidance over the years. 
The search for a new non-executive Director is under way . 
Dividend
The Board is recommending to shareholders a final dividend of
3.2 pence per share (2006: 2.5 pence), making a total dividend
for the year of 4.5 pence per share (2006: 3.5 pence). The total
dividend for the year represents an increase of more than 28%
over last year’ s dividend, which reflects both the strong cash
dynamics of the business and the Board’ s confidence in its
opportunities looking forward. 
Outlook
The markets in which we operate continue to expand and the
domestic economies of the countries in which we trade are 
still growing strongly . With ITE’ s strong brands and expanding
international infrastructure, I look forward to another year of
growth for the ITE Group. 
Iain Paterson
Chairman
3 December 2007
ITE has enjoyed five 
years of continuous growth 
in revenues and profits
Chairman’ s statement 11
ITE Group plc 
Annual Report 2007
ITE has very strong 
market positions 
in geographies enjoying
good economic growth
Chief Executive’ s statement
Results for 2007 financial year
T urnover for the year was £99.1 million, an increase of 20% over
last year (2006: £82.4 million). Growth from our higher margin
products, selective price increases and good cost control all
helped to lift gross margins to 50% in the year (2006: 46.7%).
Organic revenue growth was 15%, earned through running 
148 events around the world and selling over 450,000 metres
of exhibition space through our 19 offices.
Headline profit before tax of £35.3 million was 35% ahead of
last year’ s £26.0 million comparable result. The 2007 result
includes a net £3.8 million biennial contribution, largely from
the Moscow Oil and Gas event and high organic growth across
the rest of the portfolio. On a like-for-like basis gross profit was
21% higher than last year , operating profit was 20% higher than
last year and headline profit was 21% higher than last year .
Overall this represents an excellent financial and trading result
for the year .
Cash generated from the business in the year before tax was
£43.1 million representing more than 120% of headline profit
before tax. After accounting for tax, the business generated
£33.0 million of free cash flow , of which a total £27.1 million
was returned to shareholders through share buybacks and
dividends. The strong cash flow resulted in the Group’ s cash
balances rising from £21.2 million at the beginning of the year
to £26.7 million at the end of the year . ITE’ s strong balance 
sheet puts it in a good position to take advantage of current
market conditions.
Strategy
ITE has very strong market positions in geographies enjoying
good economic growth and in which the media and marketing
businesses are underrepresented. My initial impressions of 
ITE are that it also has unique assets which have enabled it to
participate so well in the growth that these economic and
structural conditions have generated in recent years.
International sales reach
ITE has a culture throughout, such that each office sells ITE
events to its domestic customer base. In addition to the
international sales offices in Germany and the UK, the domestic
ITE offices generate significant cross border sales within Russia,
Central Asia and South Eastern Europe. No other organiser in
Russia and CIS is able to replace this ‘sales reach’. 
Established market leading positions
ITE has been organising exhibitions in these territories for over
15 years. The Group has extensive knowledge and experience
of the exhibitions, the exhibitors, the venues and the regions in
which ITE runs its business.
Local presence
The Group’ s offices are locally staffed and are accepted and
acknowledged as part of the local Russian – CIS exhibition
market. ITE’ s staff have for the most part grown up with the
business. Many of them have worked together on the same
shows for many years. Some of them have worked in different
offices at different times. Overall this has created a unique
‘family’ culture among the staff of ITE that is unusual in such 
a geographically diverse business.
Venue relationships
ITE has been working in partnership with its venues since the
beginning of its business. ITE has provided financial support to
build and extend venues and is now a significant customer 
to each of its main venues. 
These assets make ITE a unique business in the exhibition
industry . Allied to this are the strengths of the exhibition
business model. The business is strongly cash generative 
and has excellent sales visibility forward. The position of ITE
together with the nature of large established brands create
barriers to entry for any potential competitors. 
The Group’ s principal objectives have been the creation of
sustainable growth in headline earnings per share and the
creation of leading positions in each of its markets. The strategy
to deliver these targets was to:
• Increase revenues from existing offices, both through
expansion of existing exhibitions and through the launch 
of new exhibitions.
• Increase volume sales and maintain the rate achieved per 
unit (‘yield’) by office.
• Make incremental ‘bolt on’ acquisitions in support of our
objectives.
• Secure forward venue rights for significant exhibitions.
