 16
ITE Group plc
Annual Report 2008
Business review
Chief Executive’s statement
Results for 2008 ﬁ nancial year
Revenue for the year was £110.1 million, an increase 
of 11% over last year (2007: £99.1 million) and an 
improvement in like-for-like revenues of 13%. Growth
in revenue was largely driven by yield improvement with 
more sales in higher priced products, a reduction in 
marginal business activity, price increases and favourable 
currency movements all contributing to the improvement. 
The gross margin has remained at 50% reﬂ ecting the 
Group’s biennial pattern of events. 
Headline pre-tax proﬁ t of £37.1 million was an absolute 
improvement on last year’s result of £35.3 million, and was 
underpinned by a 16% improvement in like-for-like ﬁ gures. 
This result was achieved after making a £3.3 million charge 
against derivative currency hedges which oﬀ set much 
of the beneﬁ cial eﬀ ect of exchange rate movement on the 
Group’s reported revenues for the year. The like-for-like 
increase in headline proﬁ ts of circa £5.0 million was largely 
driven by growth in higher margin products. 
The business activity has again provided strong cash ﬂ ow 
in the year . Headline proﬁ t before tax of £37.1 million 
has translated to an operational cash ﬂ ow ﬁ gure of 
£52.9 million. The Group applied £13.5 million of cash 
to the acquisition of businesses and £15.9 million to share 
buy backs (including ESOT purchases) over the course of 
the year . Net cash balances of £26.7 million at the beginning 
of the year rose to £29.1 million at 30 September 2008.
This strong set of ﬁ nancial results for the year was 
achieved despite the early impact of the global ﬁ nancial 
downturn aﬀ ecting some of our markets and serves to 
demonstrate the resilience of strong market positions 
in economies showing good domestic growth.
Trading and operating performance in 2008
ITE’s revenue growth has again been strong in its major 
sectors especially construction, oil and gas and travel. 
Across its principal sectors ITE experienced resilience in 
its major international brands and was active in thinning 
out low margin activity in its portfolio. 
There were ﬁ ve new launches in the construction sector 
and like-for-like revenue growth from this sector was 17% 
from a 4% volume growth. In the Oil and Gas sector there 
were two new launches in Turkmenistan and a highly 
successful sales performance on World Petroleum Congress 
2008. The cancellation of an event in Algeria improved 
proﬁ ts but dampened revenue and yield growth. Like-for-
like revenue growth in the oil and gas sector was 4% from 
a marginally smaller volume base. In the Travel and Leisure 
sector there was one new launch in Kazakhstan and an 
11% revenue growth earned from similar sales volumes. 
 Russell Taylor
Chief Executive Oﬃ  cer
The Group has a strong 
business model and 
its strategy is to actively 
expand the range and 
diversity of product 
to our international 
customer base.  Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
17
ITE Group plc
Annual Report 2008
In the 2008 ﬁ nancial year the Group ran 159 exhibitions 
(2007: 148) including 15 new launches (2007: 17). 
The details of our exhibitions and conferences business 
(excluding publishing) are:
   Sq metres   Gross Average
   sold Revenue proﬁ t yield
   000s £m £m per m
2
2007  All events 455 97 49 
  Non annual (23) (6) (4) 
2007 Annually recurring 432 91 45 £210
  Acquisitions 19 2 1 
  Growth (2) 12 8 
2008 Annually recurring 449 105 54 £234
  Non annual 51 3 1 
2008 All events 500 108 55 
     
The Group’s like-for-like volume sales for the year were 
aﬀ ected by the cancellation of some unproﬁ table events 
(circa 7,000 m
2
) and were marginally less than last year. 
However, a combination of sales mix, price increases 
and favourable currency movements yielded a net 13% 
increase in like-for-like revenues. Approximately half 
of the improvement in revenues arose from beneﬁ cial 
currency movements.
Russia
Russia has enjoyed real growth in Gross Domestic Product 
of 7-8% for the last two years, and trading conditions in the 
year to 30 September 2008 were not signiﬁ cantly aﬀ ected 
by the world’s ﬁ nancial crisis or by the withdrawal of 
foreign investment from Russia. Like-for-like revenue 
growth from exhibitions and events in Russia was 12% 
from total space sold of 247,000m
2
 (2007: 250,000m
2
).
 
International quality venue space in Moscow is now 
circa 300,000m
2
, which is suﬃ  cient for the current size 
of the Moscow exhibition business though the ﬁ xture list 
remains congested at peak times. The biggest inﬂ uence 
on the Moscow result is always the size and pricing of 
the construction event, MosBuild. Although volume 
growth this year suﬀ ered from a date clash with another 
international event which reduced overall growth to 
3%, pricing, discount control and beneﬁ cial currency 
movement supported good revenue improvement. 
For other events, trading remained strong with good 
demand from the international customers of our major 
events being a recurring feature. In St Petersburg there 
has been no marked change in the trading environment 
and the exhibition industry still awaits a deﬁ nitive 
statement on future exhibition venues. ITE has this year 
established a third Russian oﬃ  ce through the acquisition 
of Siberian Fairs in Novosibirsk which since its acquisition 
has traded in line with management’s expectations. There 
is good interest from our international exhibitor base in 
the Novosibirsk exhibitions, but development of a new 
venue is key to the future growth of the business. There 
are presently two potential venue projects in varying 
stages of advancement, and planned for 2010.
Central Asia & Caucasus
Overall, revenues increased by 22% in Central Asia & 
Caucasus from a volume sales increase of 6%. The Group’s 
most notable impact from the current ﬁ nancial crisis was 
the downturn in the Kazakhstan property market, which in 
turn led to the reduction in size of the Autumn construction 
event, KazBuild. The Kazakhstan economy has a relatively 
high exposure to foreign debt and bank lending had 
supported a property and construction boom over recent 
years, which was an early victim of the international 
liquidity crisis. 
In Azerbaijan the economy is still enjoying growth in Gross 
Domestic Product of more than 13% and with a relatively 
low exposure to foreign debt there has been no marked 
change in market conditions since last year. ITE’s business 
performance was strong with revenues from the Baku 
oﬃ  ce increasing by over 20% year-on-year. Construction 
has now started on a new 28,000m
2
 venue in Baku and ITE 
are in advanced discussions to be an anchor tenant for the 
new venue. Our other Central Asian market is Uzbekistan 
where again exposure to foreign debt as a proportion of 
Gross Domestic Product has been relatively low and real 
economic growth remains forecast to be circa 7% for next 
year. The recently constructed new pavilion at the venue 
has supported good revenue growth this year to £2.8m, 
a 50% increase in like-for-like revenues. Key performance indicators:
The key performance indicators ITE uses to measure progress against its strategic objective, and its performance in this 
ﬁ nancial year, are set out below:
18
ITE Group plc
Annual Report 2008
Business review
Chief Executive’s statement
continued
Eastern & Southern Europe
In Eastern & Southern Europe like-for-like volume sales 
growth was 2% yielding revenue growth of 12%. Our two 
main markets are in Ukraine and Turkey. Both countries are 
exposed to high levels of foreign debt relative to the size of 
their economy and both have had political uncertainty in the 
year . Encouragingly in both Turkey and Ukraine our oﬃ  ces 
have enjoyed good demand for their exhibition products 
over the last twelve months. The new ﬁ nancial year has 
started well in both countries with good bookings to date 
but volatility in their domestic currencies is expected to 
make domestic sales more challenging in the future. 
 
UK & Western Europe
Moda’ s performance in the last ﬁ nancial year has been 
excellent, maintaining a good ﬁ nancial result in diﬃ  cult 
market conditions. In the UK our fashion business is aﬀ ected 
by the slowdown in the UK retail market, but the ability to 
oﬀ er a complete marketing solution across publishing and 
exhibitions brings added value to our customers. 
Strategy
ITE’s primary business objectives remain:
The creation of sustainable growth in headline earnings  >
per share; and
The creation and maintenance of sustainable market  >
leadership in its markets.
ITE’s strategy for achieving its objective is based on 
enhancing its existing business strengths and gaining 
incremental synergy through expansion. ITE aims to 
extend its existing business model in its current markets 
by diversifying its exhibition portfolio, but also to 
‘leverage’ its strengths both through expansion of its 
international sales network and of its product base to 
other similar markets.
The business strengths which ITE aims to build upon are:
International sales network
ITE has oﬃ  ces making sales in territories where historic 
and political trading relationships between exporters and 
the Russian and CIS economies have long existed. ITE’s 
oﬃ  ces in Turkey and Western Europe account for circa 
50% of its sales into its core Russian and CIS exhibition 
products. There are also strong trading links between the 
Russian and CIS states which ITE is able to access through 
its local oﬃ  ce infrastructure.
ITE’s revenues from existing (‘like-for-like’) products  >
has increased by 13% in the year.
The annually recurring base metres of our exhibition  >
business as at 1 October 2007 was 430,000m
2
. 
Acquisitions and growth have increased this to 
490,000m
2
 as at 1 October 2008.
ITE has made four acquisitions in the year to  >
supplement our ‘product’ oﬀ ering. Sﬁ tex, a security 
exhibition in St Petersburg, Interstroyexpo, 
a construction event in St Petersburg, Siberian Fairs 
in Novosibirsk, a regional oﬃ  ce with 30+ events in 
Siberia and Bubble, a childrenswear event in London.
In Moscow ITE has an agreement in principle to  >
extend to 2011 the pricing and commitment for 
its main venue. 
To increase revenues from existing 
exhibition portfolio 
To increase the annually recurring volume 
base of our exhibition portfolio 
To make incremental bolt on acquisitions 
in support of objectives 
Secure forward venue rights for signiﬁ cant 
exhibitions  Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
19
ITE Group plc
Annual Report 2008
ITE has this year expanded its international sales network 
to reﬂ ect new trading relationships and to improve its 
performance in countries where in the past agents have 
been used to make its sales. ITE’s Beijing oﬃ  ce is a growing 
source of sales, accounting for 3% of sales into the core 
markets this year. Nascent sales oﬃ  ces have been opened 
recently in Spain, Malaysia and Dubai. These new sales 
oﬃ  ces will be more eﬀ ective than the existing agency 
structure in delivering sales across the complete range 
of ITE’s products and in focusing on the right quality of 
exhibitors and content for our events.
Market leading events
ITE already has market leading exhibitions and conferences 
in its portfolio of events. However, there are industry 
sectors where ITE does not yet have a strong enough 
product in the market place. ITE is well positioned to build 
or acquire strong events in new sectors by using its local 
sales force, its international sales network and its good 
venue relationships. This year ITE acquired Sﬁ tex, a 
3,000m
2
 security event in St Petersburg; with the support 
of ITE’s existing international sales teams it produced 
growth of over 50% in its ﬁ rst year of ownership. In April, 
ITE announced the acquisition of Interstroyexpo, the 
leading St Petersburg construction event. Again the Group 
is able to bring its international sales forces to focus on 
the new event, which will next take place in April 2009.
Local presence
ITE has well established oﬃ  ces in the markets where 
it holds its exhibitions. The knowledge, experience and 
contacts of the staﬀ  built up over the last 15 years enables 
ITE’s to sell to domestic exhibitors, to manage the 
professional staging of the event and to deliver reliably 
a targeted visitor audience to the exhibition.
In April ITE acquired a new exhibition portfolio in Novosibirsk, 
Eastern Russia. Siberian Fairs runs 30 exhibitions across 
all industry sectors and has market leading exhibitions in 
Novosibirsk. This extension of ITE’s oﬃ  ce infrastructure 
will provide a platform for future growth of the exhibition 
portfolio in Novosibirsk.
Venue relationships
ITE’s venue relationships are key to its business model, 
providing continuity, theme protection and growth for our 
key events.
ITE has continued to extend its working relationships 
with its principal venues in the year. In Kazakhstan ITE 
has reached agreement with Atakent to support the 
construction of a new pavilion that will double the 
currently available international quality exhibition space
to circa 40,000m
2
. Construction is expected to be 
completed by the end of 2010. ITE is also in discussions 
to support the development of a 28,000m
2
 venue 
in Baku, Azerbaijan which is due to complete by 2010. 
In Novosibirsk ITE is in discussion with potential developers 
of new exhibition space in the city. 
Russell Taylor
Chief Executive Oﬃ  cer
1 December 2008
