 14
ITE Group plc
Annual Report 2008
Overview
Chairman’s statement
Group performance
ITE Group plc has produced another strong set of ﬁ nancial 
results for the year ending 30 September 2008. In the 
lesser year of our biennial pattern, revenues increased 
by 11% to £110.1 million (2007: £99.1 million). Headline 
pre-tax proﬁ t increased by 5% to £37.1 million and 
reported Proﬁ t before tax has increased to £34.5 million 
(2007: £33.7 million). Fully diluted earnings per share 
have increased to 9.3p per share (2007: 9.0p per share). 
These results have been achieved alongside mixed trading 
conditions in some of our markets and are a good indication 
of the resilience of the Group’s business model. The Group 
generated cash ﬂ ow from operations of £52.9 million in 
the year, from which it applied £13.5 million to investment 
in new businesses, £12.1 million to dividends and 
£15.9 million to share buy backs. The Group’s cash balances 
at the year end were £29.1 million (2007: £26.7million).
Strategic progress
The Group’s primary strategy over the past few years 
has been to maximise the organic growth opportunities 
available through its strong market positions in Russia and 
Central Asia. The Group has an established management 
structure and a business model which is capable of 
replication both in our existing markets and in other 
emerging market countries. The Group continues with
its strategy of seeking opportunities for ITE to leverage 
its international sales network onto local products.
In Russia and in Central Asia, ITE has the unique assets 
of strong local infrastructure and an eﬀ ective international 
sales network. The Group has recently made good 
progress in expanding its international sales reach by 
opening oﬃ  ces in China, and more recently Spain, Dubai 
and Malaysia. Progress has also been made this year 
to expand the Group’s product range by acquiring the 
Interstroyexpo construction event in St Petersburg, the 
Sﬁ tex security event in St Petersburg and a complete 
portfolio of exhibitions in Novosibirsk, Siberia. The 
businesses are performing to plan and the beneﬁ t of 
these acquisitions will have their ﬁ rst impact on our 
proﬁ ts in 2009.
Iain Paterson
Chairman
The Board remains 
conﬁ dent that ITE with 
its advance bookings, 
strong cash ﬂ ow, leading 
exhibition brands and 
experienced management 
team is well positioned 
for the future. Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
15
ITE Group plc
Annual Report 2008
We continue to maintain excellent relationships with 
our venue partners. In Kazakhstan we have agreed to 
support the Almaty venue in its plans to expand the total 
gross exhibition space by 20,000m
2
. In Baku, Azerbaijan, 
construction has started on a new 28,000m
2
 exhibition 
centre where ITE will become the anchor tenant in 
a country whose economy is still showing robust growth.
The recent change in the world economic climate  will 
present new and fresh challenges for the Group in the 
markets in which it operates. We are well positioned 
to beneﬁ t from the changed circumstances having 
£29.1 million of cash on the balance sheet, low operational 
gearing and continuing strong cash generation. We are 
able to take advantage of any opportunities that will 
help us to achieve our strategy as and when they arise.
Board and management
There have been a number of changes to the Board. 
Russell Taylor was appointed as Acting Chief Executive 
in addition to his existing duties as Finance Director, 
following the departure of Bill Dye in January. The 
Board were pleased to conﬁ rm Russell’s appointment 
as Chief Executive in May. Neil Jones joined the Board 
as Finance Director on 4 November 2008. Neil was 
previously the Finance Director at Tarsus Group plc, a UK 
listed international exhibition company. He brings to the 
Board experience of making acquisitions in new emerging 
market territories and extensive knowledge of the 
exhibition industry outside Russia and the CIS.
Sir Jeremy Hanley stepped down from the Board at the 
AGM in March after having served as a non-executive 
Director for nine years from the ﬂ otation of the Group 
as a listed company. The Board is deeply grateful for his 
wise counsel and commitment during the years of the 
development of ITE. Neil England was appointed 
a non-executive Director in March. Neil has ﬁ rst-hand 
experience of managing businesses in Russia and the 
CIS and brings valuable perspectives to bear on our 
current business. Michael Hartley has been appointed the 
Senior Independent Director and has replaced Sir Jeremy 
as Chairman of the Audit Committee. Malcolm Wall has 
become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Dividend
The Board is recommending to shareholders a ﬁ nal 
dividend of 3.7p per share (2007: 3.2p), making a total 
dividend for the year of 5.3p per share (2007: 4.5p). 
The dividend for the year represents an increase of 18% 
over last year’s dividend, reﬂ ecting both the strong cash 
position of the Group and the Board’s conﬁ dence in its 
positioning and future.
Outlook
ITE’s current bookings indicate that like-for-like volume 
sales will show little or no growth in 2009, but overall 
volumes will be improved by non-annual events and the 
acquisitions made in this year. Revenue growth is expected 
to be positive reﬂ ecting pricing policy, mix and the 
beneﬁ cial eﬀ ect of exchange rates on reported revenues. 
At 28 November 2008 like-for-like bookings are for 
volume sales slightly down on last year but for revenue 
growth in excess of 10% over last year. Advance bookings 
already made for this ﬁ nancial year are £75 million 
(2007: £61 million at the same date). 
The global economy is experiencing uncertain and 
diﬃ  cult times and we continue to monitor local market 
conditions closely. Currently the principal economies 
in which ITE operates in Russia and Central Asia are still 
expected to grow, albeit at lower levels than previously 
forecast. Our strong exhibition brands enjoy leading 
positions in their markets and access a broad customer 
base across international and local markets. Accordingly 
we expect our exhibitions will prove to be resilient in 
this testing environment. The Board remains conﬁ dent 
that ITE with its advance bookings, strong cash ﬂ ow, 
leading exhibition brands and experienced management 
team is well positioned for the future.
Iain Paterson
Chairman
1 December 2008
