 06 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Overview
Chairman’s statement
Group performance
The Group has delivered a record financial 
performance, reporting revenues of £1 16.7 
million and headline pre-tax profits of 
£45.8 million. Reported pre-tax profits 
were £41.5 million, a 21% increase from 
last year and diluted earnings per share 
increased by 37% from 9.3p to 12.7p. There 
were several factors influencing these 
results, notably the downturn in the world 
economy which had a growing impact on 
trading conditions throughout our markets 
as the year progressed, the benefit of our 
stronger biennial pattern of events, newly 
acquired events and beneficial currency 
movements. The economic downturn 
reduced the Group’s like-for-like* volume 
sales by more than 20%, the effect of 
which was largely offset by changes in 
the Sterling-Euro exchange rate. The 
Group’s balance sheet at the beginning of 
the year was well positioned to deal with 
the effects of the economic downturn 
with £29.1 million of net cash and, after 
investing £8.0 million in expanding the 
business, the Group’s net cash position 
at 30 September 2009 was £23.1 million. 
Strategic progress
ITE’s primary strengths are its strong 
exhibition brands in the markets of Russia 
and the CIS allied to the reputation and 
breadth of its international sales network. 
Together these assets have given the 
Group a unique opportunity to capitalise 
on the strong growth experienced by 
the Russian and CIS economies over the 
last five years. More recently the strategy 
has been to leverage these strengths by 
both expanding the portfolio of events 
in other emerging markets and by 
enhancing the reach and effectiveness of 
our international sales network. This year 
saw a continuation of this strategy with 
the addition of the Eastern Mediterranean 
International Travel and Tourism exhibition 
based in Istanbul which has enhanced 
the Group’s portfolio of travel events. 
The Group  
has delivered a 
record financial 
performance, 
reporting 
revenues of 
£1 16.7 million 
and headline 
pre-tax profits  
of £45.8 million  
    
    
* Like-for-like excludes the effect of significant  
non-annual events, acquisitions and disposals.
Iain Paterson
Non-executive Chairman ITE Group plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Board and management
Neil Jones joined the Board as Group 
Finance Director last November. He 
has been able to make an immediate 
contribution with his existing knowledge 
of the industry. There were no further 
changes to the Board during the year. The 
success of the business largely depends 
on the relationships that our staff build 
and maintain with our customers, and 
I should like to extend my thanks to all 
the staff who have worked so hard to 
make this year’s result achievable.
Dividend 
The Board has a progressive dividend policy 
and is recommending a final dividend of 
3.9p per share which, together with the 
interim dividend of 1.6p, makes a total 
dividend of 5.5p (2008: 5.3p) for the 
year. The increase reflects the Group’s 
strong cash position and its confidence 
in the future prospects of the business. 
The payment date of the proposed final 
dividend is being brought forward to 
February 2010 to achieve a better spread 
of returns to shareholders during the year. 
Outlook
The current trading conditions in our core 
markets are now stable, albeit at a lower 
level than this time a year ago, although 
the Group has yet to experience an 
upturn in booking patterns. The economic 
prospects in the Group’s core markets 
are for a return to economic growth over 
the course of calendar year 2010, with 
stronger growth expected thereafter. 
The nature of the exhibition business 
is such that this economic recovery is 
not expected to feed into the Group’s 
financial results until the middle of next 
year. As anticipated, this ‘late-cycle’ 
characteristic means that like-for-like 
volume sales for 2010 could be up to 10% 
lower than 2009. At 27 November forward 
bookings for 2010 stand at £56 million.
The Group has reported strong financial 
results for the year, has a strong 
balance sheet, and is well positioned to 
benefit from a recovery and capitalise 
on new opportunities to expand the 
business. Accordingly the Board remains 
confident of ITE’s future prospects. 
Iain Paterson 
Non-executive Chairman
30 November 2009
ITE’s business is  
founded on well 
established trade  
routes serving  
the Russian and  
CIS markets   
   
