 08 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Business review
Chief Executive’s statement
Results for the 2009 financial year
Reported revenues for the year of  
£1 16.7 million are a 6% improvement over 
last year’s £109.8 million and were earned 
from volume sales of 423,000m
2
 (2008: 
500,000m
2
). The volume sales pattern gives 
a better indication of the trading conditions 
experienced during the year. The Group’s 
like-for-like volume sales on 1 October 2008 
were circa 10% ahead of the previous year’s 
figures. By the end of December the onset 
of the financial crisis had caused like-for-
like volume sales to fall marginally behind 
the previous year’s, and over the full year 
were more than 20% below the comparable 
2008 figure. The mitigating factors 
that helped reported revenues increase 
despite the deterioration in underlying 
trading were a first time contribution from 
acquisitions of £9.4 million, a net biennial 
revenue contribution of £3.7 million and an 
estimated £10.5 million of benefit from the 
reporting of US Dollar and Euro revenues 
in Sterling. Average exchange rates for 
the year reflected Sterling being circa 12% 
weaker against our principal currency 
revenues compared to the previous year. 
Against this backdrop of reducing volume 
sales, costs were reduced in line with 
the size of exhibitions. Reducing venue 
commitments and staffing costs were the 
main focus, resulting in a gross margin 
for the year of 52%, consistent with 
the margins we normally report in our 
biennially stronger year. Overheads were 
also reduced and are maintained this year 
at 15% of revenue producing an operating 
margin of 37% for the year. Headline profits 
before tax of £45.8 million are comfortably 
ahead of last year’s £37.0 million, helped by 
acquisitions, the biennial pattern and net 
foreign exchange gains made in the year. 
The Group reduced its ongoing tax rate 
to 26% from 32% last year, reflecting 
improved tax management and falling 
tax rates in the Group’s principal 
trading regions, notably Russia.
The improved financial position, lower 
tax rate and lower average number of 
shares in issue resulted in diluted headline 
earnings per share rising 41% to 14.2p 
(2008: 10.1p). This is a strong financial 
result in a year where actual trading activity 
was more than 15% down on the previous 
year. The integration of new acquisitions, 
the reduction and control of costs and 
the successful management of its events 
leave the Group on an excellent footing 
from which to progress next year. 
Trading and operating performance  
in 2009
The principal factors affecting individual 
shows and sector performance this year 
were the proportion of international 
exhibitors in an event and when the event 
took place in the calendar. International 
customers reacted less severely than smaller 
local market customers and different 
regions reflected the economic downturn 
at different times and with varying levels of 
ITE’s discerning 
quality is its 
reputation with 
international 
exhibitors
Russell Taylor
Chief Executive Officer ITE Group plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
severity. The strongest performing events 
all took place in the first quarter of the year 
where bookings were mostly made in pre-
crisis conditions, contrasting with events 
taking place in the final quarter where 
bookings were all made into a post-crisis 
environment. The revenues earned in the 
Group are largely denominated in Euros 
and the relative strength of this currency 
against local currencies and against Sterling 
meant that all regions reported better 
revenue results than volume results. 
The construction sector has been the 
biggest contributor to ITE’s growth over 
the last five years, and unsurprisingly 
was particularly exposed to a tightening 
of credit facilities and international 
investment. However, the biggest event in 
our portfolio, MosBuild, benefited from high 
levels of early bookings from international 
customers. Across the Group, the sector 
experienced a reduction of 25% in volume 
sales representing a balance between the 
Spring events which had some pre-crisis 
bookings in their figures and the Autumn 
events which reported larger reductions 
in volume sales. The oil and gas sales 
portfolio of events reported sales volumes 
circa 20% lower than last year on a like-for-
like basis. The low oil price detrimentally 
affected sentiment in the sector for the 
Spring events, and for the important 
biennial Moscow International Oil and Gas 
Exhibition. Latterly a recovery in oil prices 
to circa $70 per barrel has improved the 
mood of the sector and helped support 
the performance of the Kazakhstan 
International Oil and Gas Exhibition which 
took place in the first part of the 2010 
financial year. The Group’s travel exhibitions 
were a relative out-performer with sales 
volumes reducing by only 15%, reflecting 
both their Spring season timing and high 
proportion of international customers.
In 2009 the Group ran 179 events (2008: 
159), the increase largely being attributable 
to the acquired portfolio of smaller events 
in our Novosibirsk office. New launch 
activity was mostly stalled in this year 
though there will now be opportunities 
to step into gaps where competitors have 
failed. A detailed analysis of revenues 
and gross profits from our exhibition and 
conference business is set out below. 
 
The Group’s annually recurring exhibition 
business (on a volume basis) is 10% less 
than last year, but through the beneficial 
movement in currency rates together with 
good cost control, the Group has been able 
to report higher revenues and gross profits 
from this lower annually recurring volume 
base. The Group’s average sales rate in 
Sterling terms of £268 per square metre is 
a 15% increase on last year’s average sales 
rate reflecting changes in currency and mix 
of events. The average sales rates for the 
year were €1.21:£1 and $1.57:£1 reflecting 
the fact that a large proportion of our 
business was booked relatively early in the 
year before Sterling reached its lowest point. 
ITE’s strategy
ITE’s primary business objectives are to:
create sustainable growth in •	
headline earnings per share; and 
create and maintain sustainable •	
positions of market leadership.
ITE’s strategy for achieving these objectives 
is to continue to strengthen its existing 
positions of market leadership by investing 
in the quality of its events, and to expand 
the business model into other market 
areas or geographies where there is the 
potential to create strong market positions. 
In the Group’s existing markets this means 
searching out new sectors and regions in 
which to acquire or develop businesses. 
ITE’s strengths lie in its proven ability to 
deliver international sales and its search 
is focused around those businesses where 
there is potential for the participation of 
international exhibitors, and also look to 
develop new complementary geographies.
The key performance indicators that 
ITE uses to measure progress against 
its objectives and performance 
this year are set out below:
ITE has sought to develop and build 
upon its main business strengths:
 
International sales reach
ITE’s discerning quality in its business is its 
reputation with its international exhibitor 
base. ITE is unique in owning several sales 
offices which exist solely to make ‘outbound 
sales’ to its exhibitions and events in Russia 
and the CIS. The Group focuses its staff 
on selling its own exhibitions, which has 
created a specialist skill base in promoting 
sales into the Russian and CIS economies. 
  Square metres   Gross Average 
  sold Revenue profit yield 
  (000) £m £m per m
2
2008 All events 500 108 55
 Non-annual  (51) (3) (1)
2008 Annually recurring  449 105 54 £234
 Acquisitions 67 9 6
 Net reduction  (110) (5) (5)
2009 Annually recurring 406 109 55 £268
 Non-annual 17 7 5
2009 All events 423 116 60
ITE’s sales 
expertise, brand 
strength and 
local office 
presence give  
it a unique 
position in the 
Russian and  
CIS markets 10 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Business review
Chief Executive’s statement continued
Key performance indicators
To increase revenues 
from existing exhibition 
portfolio
Sterling revenues from existing (‘like-for-like’) 
products has fallen by 6% in the year under 
review. This reflects both the economic crisis 
which has led to exhibitions worldwide reducing 
in size this year, mitigated by weakness in Sterling 
against our principal invoicing currencies. 
To increase the 
(annually) recurring 
volume base of our 
exhibition business 
The annually recurring volume base of the exhibition 
business fell by 10% from 449,000m
2
 to 406,000m
2
. 
This reflected the severity of the economic crisis 
in our markets leading to a reduction of 24% in our 
existing business, but offset by the acquisition of 
new events which added 67,000m
2
 to the portfolio. 
To make incremental 
bolt on acquisitions in 
support of our 
objectives
This year the Group acquired the leading travel 
exhibition in the Eastern Mediterranean region, EMITT, 
which has potential for growth in its international 
sales base. Subsequent to the year end, the Group has 
acquired a small exhibition business in India, which 
will position the Group to grow its business there.
Secure forward venue 
rights for significant 
exhibitions
Of ITE’s top ten exhibitions and conferences, 
three have secured rights for three years, six 
for two years and one for one year. The Group’s 
management is in an ongoing process of agreeing 
venue terms in compliance with this objective. 
These ten exhibitions represent 58% of revenues. 
Brands
These brands 
have a strong 
identity with  
our customers ITE Group plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
In 2009 international sales accounted for 
43% of total square metres sold in the year 
(2008: 43%); through its London office 
(17%), its German office (4%), its Chinese 
office (3%) and its Turkish office (3%). This 
international sales reach differentiates us 
from locally based competitors. ITE’s ability 
to add value to acquired businesses relies 
on it being able to promote the sale of new 
exhibitions to its existing international 
customer base. ITE has recently invested 
in the development of its international 
sales network by launching new offices 
in Spain, USA, Poland and Dubai. 
Established market leading brands
ITE has established strong brand identity in 
certain sectors of exhibitions. In particular 
the ‘build’ brand in construction, the 
‘International Oil and Gas Events’ (‘IOGE’) 
brand, the ‘International Travel and Tourism’ 
(‘ITT’) and World Food brands have a strong 
reputation and identity with customers, 
earned through more than 15 years of 
sustained good performance. These brands 
and their attached reputation are not 
restricted to the Russian and CIS markets 
and the Group can, and aspires to, expand 
the use of these brands into new markets.
Local presence
ITE’s brands have built their reputation 
through sustained delivery of successful 
exhibitions to customers. The foundation 
of this is our local office presence, with 
eight principal offices running more than 
170 events per year. ITE’s offices, like 
its exhibitions and brands, have been 
in place for over 15 years and today 
employ over 800 people. The local offices 
both organise all details of staging an 
exhibition, but critically own and manage 
the databases of visitors necessary for 
making an exhibition successful for our 
customers. ITE’s local office skills in Russia 
and the In CIS are a differentiating factor 
from other international organisers – and 
building a local office remains a barrier 
to entry for new organisers wishing to 
establish themselves in these markets. 
Venue relationships
ITE has established special relationships 
with the venues that host its exhibitions. 
Historically, ITE has supported the 
development of venue facilities – which in 
turn has helped the Group’s exhibitions 
to grow. This ‘partnership’ relationship 
has established for ITE the rights to 
run its main exhibition themes in its 
chosen venues at the time of its choice. 
The Group’s track record in developing 
good quality exhibitions also makes it 
the ‘organiser of choice’ for venues.
ITE’s international sales expertise, brand 
identity, local office strength and venue 
relationships give it a unique position in 
Russia and the CIS marketplace. To run 
successful international exhibitions, which 
are generally the ‘must do’ events in a 
country, an organiser needs both local 
presence and international sales strength. 
ITE has established this position in its main 
sectors in its core markets, and its brands 
and venue relationships make it hard for 
new entrants to successfully compete with 
ITE’s events in these markets. Two of these 
assets – the brand and the international 
sales skills are portable and can help ITE to 
establish itself in other emerging markets.
Russell Taylor
Chief Executive Officer
30 November 2009
 1 79
events held
 423,000m
2
space sold in the year
