 14
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Operating performance and Divisional summary
Chief Executive’s statement
Further strategic  
progress
The Group has delivered a robust financial 
performance in a year that saw sentiment 
in our markets move from recession to 
recovery. Most of the events that took 
place reflect the effects of the recession, 
with only those taking place in the final 
quarter of the year reporting significant 
improvement over last year’s equivalent 
events. The effects of last year’s recession 
are evidenced by the expected 1 1% 
reduction in ‘like-for-like’ volume sales. 
Average exchange rates of the Euro, our 
principal invoicing currency, were 5% 
stronger against Sterling over the year 
and this helped to mitigate the effect of 
the sales shortfall on reported revenues. 
Actual revenues for the year were 
£1 1 3.5 million (2009: £1 16.7 million), 
which in ‘like-for-like’ terms is a reduction 
of circa 6%. The biennial pattern of the 
Moscow International Oil & Gas event 
(which did not take place this year) 
together with the impact of the recession 
accounted for a £10 million reduction 
from last year’s revenues. Revenues from 
newly acquired businesses in the year 
were circa £8.0 million. Approximately 
half of this came from new shows in 
Turkey (previously owned by our former 
associate company) and comprise relatively 
low priced large events. The addition 
of our new Indian exhibition business 
and a portfolio of ‘Aquatherm’ events in 
Ukraine and Central Asia account for the 
balance of new acquisition revenue.
The Group’s gross margin has fallen to 
49% from last year’s high of 52%. This 
partially reflects ITE’s biennial pattern, but 
is also a consequence of the new low-
yielding Turkish events in the portfolio 
which contributed £3.8 million of revenue, 
but at markedly lower yields than the 
Group’s average yield. Administrative 
expenses (before amortisation) have 
risen by 1 1% to £19.9 million, but the 
majority of this increase relates to 
transaction costs and overhead increase 
associated with new acquisitions. 
Excluding these acquisition-related 
costs, administrative expenses before 
amortisation have increased by circa 6%. 
Operating profits before amortisation and 
transaction costs were £36.6 million, which 
represents a net operating margin of 32%. 
Trading summary 2010 
As last year, the principal factor affecting 
the performance of individual events was 
where and when they took place in the 
year. The Russian economy began to show 
positive signs in Moscow shortly after the 
beginning of the calendar year and has 
gathered momentum since then. In Central 
Asia the signs of recovery lag Moscow by 
six months and Ukraine, which suffered 
the worst of the recessions, has yet to 
start a recovery. In Turkey, Azerbaijan 
and Uzbekistan the effects of the global 
recession were moderate compared to the 
impact on Russia, Central Asia and Ukraine. 
Events taking place in the first quarter of 
this financial year reflected the full impact 
of the recession and were set against 
comparative performances from October to 
December 2008 which enjoyed ‘top of the 
market’ conditions for our business. Events 
taking place from January to April enjoyed 
a mix of influences as their booking 
periods included periods of recession and 
also the beginnings of a recovery, and for 
events taking place after May the pattern 
was increasingly one of the recovering 
economy. By September 2010 the events 
had almost all of their bookings cycle made 
in an improving economic background. 
Russell Taylor
Chief Executive Officer
We have continued to 
invest by acquiring 
complementary 
businesses and 
further strengthening 
our market leading 
events and brands 15
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Sectors have also responded differently to 
the recession. Construction, represented 
by the Build brand remains our largest 
sector accounting for 39% of the Group’s 
revenue and has over the last two years 
been the most severely affected of ITE’s 
sectors. Since 2008 the sector has fallen 
in size by 26%. Mosbuild, the dominant 
Moscow construction exhibition, took place 
in April but was a net 16% smaller than the 
equivalent event in 2009, which itself had 
been 14% down on the 2008 peak result. 
Likewise Interstroyexpo, the international 
construction event in St Petersburg, is 
now running at about half of its 2008 
size, and Balticbuild (St Petersburg) and 
Kazbuild (Kazakhstan) are reduced to 
circa 30% of their former peak sizes. Oil 
& Gas, represented by the ‘IOGE’ brand 
is ITE’s second biggest sector accounting 
for circa 12% of revenue and replicated at 
seven events across our territories. These 
events are beginning to recover with the 
recovering oil price. The portfolio was 
24% smaller in 2010 than its equivalent 
peak in 2008. ITE’s travel exhibition brand 
accounts for circa 12% of Group revenue 
and is dominated by the Moscow, Turkish 
and Ukrainian events, all taking place in 
the spring season. A substantial proportion 
of their customer base comes from 
government and regional authorities. The 
2010 events performed exceptionally well 
and collectively were only 1 3% lower than 
the 2008 peak events. However, looking 
forward there is now more pressure on 
many government budgets, particularly in 
the Southern Mediterranean and Western 
European holiday destinations and the 
trading environment for this sector next 
year is more challenging. ‘World Food’ 
is ITE’s major food brand and accounts 
for 10% of Group revenues. Despite a 
positive result from World Food Moscow 
in September 2010, the ‘World Food’ 
portfolio is still more than 20% smaller 
than the comparative 2008 portfolio.
The revenues and profits of the Group’s 
business for this financial year are 
comparable to the results from the last 
pre-recession year, 2008. However in 
the interceding two years the Group has 
absorbed a 29% ‘like for like’ fall in sales 
volumes from its core portfolio, and 
replaced the profits and revenues through 
a combination of new business acquisitions, 
favourable currency movements and cost 
reductions. Accordingly as the Group 
enters 201 1, the underlying base of the 
exhibition business is stronger than in 
2008 and there is scope for a cyclical 
recovery towards previous activity levels, 
if economic circumstances continue 
to improve in the next few years. 
ITE’s strategy
ITE’s primary business objectives are to:
create sustainable growth in 
headline earnings per share; and 
create and maintain sustainable 
positions of market leadership 
in the exhibition business 
in emerging markets.
ITE’s strategic priorities for achieving these 
objectives are: 
(i) to continue to strengthen and build 
on its existing market leadership 
(ii) to expand its business model into 
other sectors and/or geographies 
where there is the potential to 
create strong market positions 
(iii) to grow and improve its portfolio 
of international exhibition brands 
(iv) to invest in the development of 
management talent in ITE. 
Events held
 16 7
Space sold in the year
49 1 ,000m
2
ITE’s performance against its strategic 
objectives is set out below:
(i) To continue to strengthen and build 
on its existing market leadership
ITE’s existing positions of market 
leadership are based upon the strength 
of its international sales network, its 
market leading brands, established 
local offices and longstanding 
relationships with venues.
International sales reach 
ITE’s International sales reach differentiates 
it from its local competition in Russian 
and CIS markets. Through its subsidiary 
sales offices the Group has built a 
specialist skill base in promoting sales 
into ITE’s Russian and CIS exhibitions. 
In 2010 ‘international sales’ accounted 
for 35% of total metres sold in the year; 
through its London office 20%; its German 
office 5%; its Chinese office 3% and its 
Turkish office 3%. International sales, 
having performed well in 2009, reflected 
the recessionary slowdown this year.
ITE’s market leading brands
ITE has established strong brand identity 
in certain sectors of exhibitions. In 
particular the Build brand in construction, 
the Oil & Gas events brand, the ITE Travel 
exhibition and World Food brands all 
have strong reputations and identities 
with customers, earned through 
more than 15 years of sustained good 
performance. The Group is working to 
establish more recognised brands. ITE now 
runs Aquatherm events, under licence, 
in four of its markets and its security 
portfolio is being expanded and will be 
represented in three markets next year.
Brands
Overview
Operating performance  
and Divisional summary Governance Financial statements 16
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Operating performance and Divisional summary
Building local presence
ITE’s brands have built their reputation 
through sustained delivery of successful 
exhibitions to customers. The foundation 
of this are ITE’s local offices, which like its 
exhibitions and brands, have been in place 
for over 15 years and today employ over 
650 people (outside of the UK) who manage 
local market sales and the details of staging 
an exhibition. Critically they own and 
manage the databases of visitors necessary 
for making an exhibition successful for 
our customers. ITE’s local office skills in 
Russia and CIS are a differentiating factor 
from other international organisers and 
a barrier to entry for new organisers 
wishing to run events in these markets. 
Maintaining venue relationships
ITE has established special relationships 
with the venues that host its exhibitions. 
Historically ITE has supported the 
development of venue facilities which in 
turn has helped the Group’s exhibitions 
to grow. Through this ITE has established 
the rights to run its main exhibition 
themes in its chosen venues at the time of 
its choice. ITE has continued to work on 
maintaining its strong relationships over 
the year and has successfully extended 
its forward venue bookings for key 
events. In Turkey the Group has secured 
the position of its new events with a 
three year prepayment arrangement
(ii) To expand the business model 
into other sectors and geographies 
where there is the potential to 
create strong market positions
In existing markets the strategy targets 
new sectors and regions where businesses 
can be acquired or developed and where 
there is potential for the participation of 
international exhibitors. In new markets 
ITE is targeting the development of 
exhibition businesses where there is clear 
opportunity for strong future growth.
In November 2009 ITE acquired a 
small business in Delhi, India, running 
exhibitions that serve the paper industry 
and the mining, metals and metallurgy 
industries. India does not yet have a 
mature exhibition industry and definitive 
international exhibitions have not yet 
been established. ITE has entered the 
India market with an aim to establish 
its brands and give it the best chance 
of winning a leading market position 
as the exhibition industry develops. 
In February 2010 ITE acquired 100% 
ownership of exhibitions in Turkey which 
serve the food, engineering, furniture and 
promotional gift industries. These are all 
new sectors for ITE in Turkey. There is a 
real opportunity to bring the Food show 
into the ‘World Food’ brand and to leverage 
relationships with international exhibitors.
(iii) To grow and improve its 
portfolio of international brands 
The Group has always had a presence 
in the heating and ventilation markets 
through its own ‘Heat-Vent’ brand. 
Acquiring three shows with the rights to 
use the Aquatherm brand in three more 
of its territories in addition to the Moscow 
event gives ITE the support of a strong 
well-recognised international brand in 
this sector. The existing construction 
events taking place in Kazakhstan and 
Azerbaijan have already benefited from 
this association. The Group’s management 
has been actively developing initiatives to 
improve the strength of its existing brands.
 
(iv) To invest in the development 
of management talent in ITE
ITE has benefited over the years from 
the commitment, loyalty and expertise 
of its employees. The exhibition industry 
is not an established profession and so 
training and development is mostly ‘on 
the job’ and the responsibility of local 
offices. As ITE grows it is important to 
maintain its culture and the Group has now 
started a process of identifying, training 
and developing selected individuals to 
ensure continuity of quality management 
is generated internally in the future.
Chief Executive’s statement 
continued
The actions taken during 
the last 18 months have 
strengthened the Group 
and positioned it to 
benefit from growth
ITE’s sales expertise, 
brand strength and local 
office presence give it 
a unique position in the 
Russian and CIS markets
