 12
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Overview
Chairman’s statement
A good financial 
performance
Group performance
The Group has delivered a good financial 
performance in its lesser biennial year that 
also reflected the effects of the recession 
although latterly included the beginnings 
of a recovery. The Group’s revenues 
for the year were £1 1 3.5 million (2009: 
£1 16.7 million) and headline pre-tax profits 
were £36.6 million (2009: £45.8 million). 
Reported pre-tax profits were £31.3 million 
(2009: £41.5 million) and fully diluted 
earnings per share were 9.8p (2009: 12.7p).
The balance sheet is strong and the Group 
finished the year with net cash balances 
of £23.0 million (2009: £23.1 million) after 
making investments in new businesses of 
over £20 million over the last 12 months.
Development of ITE’s business
The Group has continued to work on 
expanding the geographic profile of its 
business. In November 2009, ITE made 
initial steps to establish an exhibition 
business in India through the purchase of a 
small exhibition organiser. We now have a 
local office infrastructure in India through 
our operational centre in Delhi. We have 
also expanded our presence in Turkey by 
acquiring a significant portfolio of events 
from our former 50% owned associate 
business. In April, the Group acquired three 
‘Aquatherm’ events in Ukraine, Kazakhstan 
and Azerbaijan which supplement the 
existing Moscow event of the same 
brand. These investments are all in line 
with the Board’s strategy of developing 
international brand strength and expanding 
its emerging market presence.
Board and management
There have been no changes to the Board 
this year. The Group have decided to 
adopt early the new provisions on annual 
re-election of Directors as recommended 
by the recently issued 2010 UK Corporate 
Governance Code, as such, all Directors 
will offer themselves for re-election at the 
Company’s 201 1 Annual General Meeting.
The Board and executive management have 
worked to build a stronger management 
team and to facilitate the development 
of talent within our business. This 
investment is necessary to enable the 
Group to fulfil its strategy for business 
expansion. ITE is full of committed 
individuals, many of whom have 
demonstrated their loyalty and expertise 
over a number of years and I would like 
to thank the 822 staff of ITE throughout 
the world who have worked so hard for 
the Group in a year where the economic 
environment has been challenging.
Dividend
The Board has maintained its progressive 
dividend policy through the recession and 
is recommending a final dividend of 4.0p 
per share, which together with the interim 
dividend of 1.7p per share makes a full 
year dividend of 5.7p per share (2009: 
5.5p). The Board aims to maintain dividend 
cover of two times over the biennial cycle, 
and this dividend therefore reflects both 
the Group’s strong cash position and the 
Board’s confidence in the Group’s future.
Ian Paterson
Non-executive Chairman 13
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Outlook
The Group’s markets have all been 
impacted by the recession over the last 
two years. Moscow, which is our most 
significant market, has seen improving 
trading conditions and next year’s results 
should reflect the financial effect of this 
strengthening recovery. Our other CIS 
markets are lagging Moscow’s recovery, 
but are now showing signs of recovery. 
In our other markets, Turkey, India and 
the UK, trading conditions are either 
stable or improving. This positive outlook 
must be tempered by the risk that the 
global economy remains uncertain and 
could cause this recovery to stall.
At 26 November forward bookings for 201 1 
were £74 million which, on a ‘like-for-like 
basis’, represents growth of more than 10% 
over last year’s bookings at the same time 
and is in line with the Board’s expectations.
The Group has a strong balance sheet 
and excellent market positions in 
places with good growth opportunities 
and is well positioned to expand both 
organically and through acquisitions. The 
Board remains confident of the future 
prospects for the Group’s business.
Ian Paterson
Non-executive Chairman
29 November 2010
The Board remains 
confident of the future 
prospects of the 
Group’s business.
Dividend per share
 5.7p
Revenue
 £1 1 3.5m
Overview
Operating performance  
and Divisional summary Governance Financial statements
