 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
08
Business review
Chief Executive’s review
Russell Taylor, Chief Executive Officer
Expanding ITE’s portfolio has created a 
number of opportunities to leverage the 
customer base and achieve synergies 
across the Group ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
09
Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
The Group’s performance 
The Group has delivered a strong financial and 
operating performance in a year which saw 
the momentum of last year’s nascent recovery 
in the Moscow business continuing through 
the year and spreading to related CIS markets. 
Trading conditions have been strongest in the 
Moscow exhibition market which accounts 
for circa 51% of the Group’s annual revenues. 
The Group’s like-for-like volume sales reflect 
this improved trading environment with a 1 5% 
increase over last year. In addition, the Group 
completed three important acquisitions in the 
year. These acquisitions and the reported return 
to economic growth in its markets have helped 
ITE to become a broader and stronger business. 
Revenues for the year increased by 37% to 
£1 55.5 million (2010: £1 1 3.5 million). A first 
time contribution from the newly acquired 
businesses accounted for £16 million of the 
increase and £26 million was from organic 
growth and the biennially recurring Moscow 
International Oil & Gas Exhibition. On a 
like-for-like basis revenues grew 18% year on 
year. The effect of currencies on the Group’s 
revenues was negligible as average Euro-
Sterling exchange rates over the year were 
largely unchanged from the previous year. The 
Group’s reduced gross margin of 48% has been 
affected by the addition of lower yielding event 
portfolios in the newly acquired businesses. 
The additional overhead costs associated with 
adding two large portfolios of events has 
contributed to an increase in administrative 
expenses before amortisation costs to £24.1 
million (2010: £19.9 million). The net impact 
of these changes on operating profit margins 
(before amortisation and transaction costs) has 
been an increase from 32% to 33%.
Business development
The Group has successfully completed three 
significant acquisitions in the last year. In 
December 2010, the Group announced the 
acquisition of the MVK portfolio of events in 
Moscow. This portfolio of events had little 
overlap with ITE’s existing Moscow portfolio 
and has provided the Group with access to 
new sectors as well as a broader exposure to 
the Russian economy. The principal events 
acquired through MVK include packaging, 
printing and furniture events, which can now 
be counted alongside ITE’s traditional Moscow 
sector strengths in construction, oil and gas, 
travel and tourism, food, transport and security. 
The new events have local Russian exhibitors 
as their main customer base and ITE now has 
the opportunity to increase the international 
customer base for these events. The MVK 
portfolio contributed £9.2 million of revenue 
and £3.7 million of profits before tax to the 
201 1 result.
In March 201 1 the Group announced the 
acquisition of a regional exhibition business 
in Krasnodar that is located in the South-West 
of Russia. Krasnodar is in an increasingly 
prosperous region and is near to the cities 
of Sochi (Winter Olympics venue in 2014 and 
FIFA world cup venue in 2018) and Rostov-
on-Don. The exhibitions acquired reflect the 
local industries and agricultural bias of the 
region. The biggest events are agriculture, 
construction, wine and tourism but overall 
the business runs more than 20 exhibitions 
covering all aspects of the local economy. 
ITE is now the principal organiser both in the 
local venue and the region. This expansion 
provides a more balanced geographic 
exposure to Russia complementing the existing 
businesses operating in St Petersburg, Moscow 
and Novosibirsk. The Krasnodar portfolio 
contributed £4.3 million of revenue and £1.2 
million of profits before tax to the 201 1 result.
In July 201 1 ITE announced the acquisition of 
60% of the leading construction events portfolio 
in Turkey. The Yapi portfolio comprises the 
largest and longest running construction 
exhibition in Istanbul, Yapibuild, together with 
two smaller regional exhibitions taking place 
in Izmir and Ankara. Construction is one of 
Turkey’s main industries and strongest sectors. 
There is good potential for growth in these 
exhibitions as well as synergy with the rest 
of the ITE’s portfolio, especially as Russia and 
CIS remain strong export markets for Turkish 
construction businesses. The Yapi portfolio 
contributed £0.6 million of revenue and £0.1 
million of operating profit to the 201 1 result. 
Expanding ITE’s portfolio has created a number 
of opportunities to leverage the customer base 
and achieve synergies across the Group. Within 
the existing markets the aim is to replicate some 
of the new sectors acquired in Moscow into the 
other regional Russian and CIS markets. There 
are also added benefits from cross marketing 
the Moscow customer and visitor base into the 
new regional Russian markets and vice versa. 
The opportunities to extract additional value 
from the steps taken this year mean that the 
main focus of the Group for 201 2 in Russia will 
be on consolidation and integration.
The acquisition of the MVK portfolio triggered 
an unexpected renegotiation of ITE’s existing 
trading terms with the venue. As a result, in 
March 201 1, ITE Moscow took the decision to 
relocate a number of its leading events from 
the Crocus venue to more centrally located 
venues. The move will provide a more stable 
future for these events, but in the short term the 
scope for growth of some of the events could 
be restricted. Bookings for these re-located 
events are currently progressing in line with 
management’s expectations. 
16.6p
Headline diluted EPS
644
Sq m sold (000s) ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
10
Business review
Chief Executive’s review continued
Alongside this expansion of the business we 
have continued to develop the strength and 
depth of its management team as well as the 
Group’s infrastructure. There are a number of 
initiatives to develop the Group’s management 
and the internal communication systems to 
reflect the expanded size of the business. A 
Group Human Resources Director has been 
recruited to bring more focus on Group wide 
talent development and succession planning.
While ITE’s focus in Russia and CIS will be  
largely on developing the newly acquired 
businesses, the Group will continue to look 
for opportunities to expand the business 
model both in market and by diversifying 
geographically. There are opportunities to 
increase the Group sales from Asia into ITE’s 
existing markets through expanding the 
Group’s network of international sales offices  
in the region beyond the Beijing office.
Strategy
ITE’s primary business objectives are to:
 > Create sustainable growth in headline 
earnings per share; and 
 > Create and maintain sustainable positions of 
market leadership in the exhibition business 
in emerging markets.
ITE’s strategic priorities for achieving these 
objectives are: 
(i) to continue to strengthen and develop its 
existing positions of market leadership 
(ii) to expand its business model into new 
sectors and geographies where there is 
potential to develop strong market positions 
(iii) to grow and improve its portfolio of 
international exhibition brands 
(iv) to invest in the development of management 
talent in ITE. 
ITE’s performance against its strategic 
objectives is set out below:
i) To continue to strengthen and develop 
its existing positions of market leadership
ITE’s positions of market leadership are founded 
on its strength in international sales, its strong 
brands, its established local offices and its 
longstanding relationships with venues.
International sales strength 
ITE’s strength in international sales differentiates 
it from most of its competition in Russia and 
the related CIS markets. Through its subsidiary 
sales offices the Group has established a loyal 
customer base and a specialism in promoting 
sales into ITE’s Russian and CIS exhibitions. In 
201 1 the total net metres sold by the Group’s 
international sales offices increased by 7% 
to 98,000m
2
. As a proportion of total sales 
the international element has fallen from 
41% to 38%, reflecting the acquisition of new 
businesses which are mostly weighted towards 
local sales. The Group has invested in building 
up its sales offices this year and expects to see 
an increase in international sales next year. This 
year the majority of sales were generated by 
its London office 1 2%, its German office 4%, its 
Chinese office 2% and its Turkish office 2%. 
ITE’s market leading brands
ITE has established strong brand identity in 
certain exhibition sectors. In particular, the 
Build brand in construction, the Oil & Gas events 
brand, the ITE Travel exhibition and World Food 
brands all have strong reputations as leading 
events in the Russian and CIS markets earned 
through more than 1 5 years of sustained 
good performance. The Group is working to 
establish more recognition for these brands 
outside their current identification with the 
Russian and CIS market places. There are also 
a number of new and developing local brands 
in security, packaging, furniture, printing and 
mining events. The Group is also working to 
consolidate and establish these brands more 
visibly in the international exhibition world.
The Group will continue 
to look for opportunities 
to expand the business 
model both in market 
and by diversifying 
geographically ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
11
Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
Enhancing local office strength 
ITE’s brands have built their reputation through 
sustained delivery of successful exhibitions to 
customers. The foundation of this are ITE’s local 
offices which, like its exhibitions and brands, 
have been in place for over 1 5 years and 
today employ over 1,000 staff who organise 
the details of staging an exhibition. Critically 
they own and manage the database of visitors 
necessary for making an exhibition successful 
for ITE’s customers. ITE’s local office skills in 
Russia and CIS are a competitive advantage over 
other international organisers and a barrier to 
entry for new organisers wishing to run events 
in these markets. ITE continues to strengthen 
its local office presence through investment in 
infrastructure and training its staff. There is a 
high level of equity ownership in the Group with 
more than 56% of staff participating in equity 
schemes of some description. 
Maintaining venue relationships
ITE has established long-standing relationships 
with the venues that host its exhibitions. 
Historically ITE has supported the development 
of venue facilities which in turn has helped 
the Group’s exhibitions to grow. Through this 
ITE has acquired the rights to run its main 
exhibition themes in its chosen venues at the 
time of its choice. ITE has continued to work 
on maintaining its good relationships, though 
as noted earlier there has been a significant 
relocation of events between venues in Moscow 
this year. This year ITE have reached agreement 
to be the anchor tenant of a new 14,000m
2
 
facility in Novosibirsk. However, there will be 
new opportunities in the future with a new 
venue development expected in St Petersburg 
by 2014, and possible new venue developments 
mooted in Moscow by 2016.
(ii) To expand the business model into 
new sectors and geographies where there 
is potential to develop strong market 
positions
In existing markets this strategy means targeting 
new sectors or regions in which to acquire or 
develop businesses where there is potential for 
the participation of international exhibitors. In 
new markets ITE is targeting the development 
of exhibition businesses where there is clear 
opportunity for strong future growth.
The Group has expanded the sector exposure 
of its Moscow business through the acquisition 
of the MVK portfolio of events and in Turkey 
through the acquisition of Yapibuild. The MVK 
portfolio of events has no overlap with ITE’s 
existing Moscow portfolio and brings to the 
Group strength in the packaging, printing 
and furniture sectors. Construction is in an 
existing Group sector, and Yapibuild acquisition 
extends the Group’s representation to a new 
market. ITE also extended its regional business 
exposure in Russia through the acquisition of an 
exhibition business in Krasnodar. The exhibition 
business acquired reflects the local industries 
and agricultural bias of the region. The largest 
events are in construction, agriculture and 
tourism.
(iii) To grow and improve its portfolio of 
international brands 
The Group’s management has been developing 
initiatives to improve the strength of ITE’s 
existing international brands and to improve 
the international awareness of its strong 
local brands. By developing the international 
recognition and strength of its brands ITE 
improves the Group’s ability to ‘clone’ its  
events into new geographies. 
(iv) To invest in the development of 
management talent in ITE
ITE has benefited over the years from the 
commitment, loyalty and expertise of its 
employees. As ITE grows in its staff numbers 
and geographic spread it is important to 
maintain its culture. The Group has continued 
with last year’s process of identifying, training 
and developing selected individuals to ensure 
that quality management is generated internally 
in the future. 
Russell Taylor
Chief Executive Officer
