 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
06
Iain Paterson, Non-executive Chairman
Overview
Chairman’s statement
Record financial results ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
07
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
£ 15 5.5m
Revenue
6.1 P
Dividend per share
Group performance
The Group has delivered record financial  
results following a strong operating 
performance. Revenues of £1 55.5 million  
(2010: £1 1 3.5 million) and headline profit 
before tax of £51.4 million (2010: £36.6 million) 
have resulted from increased volume sales of 
644,000m
2
 (2010: 491,000m
2
). Pre-tax profit for 
the year was £39.1 million (2010: £31.3 million). 
This growth combines a first time contribution 
from acquisitions made during the year with a 
strong recovery in the Group’s principal trading 
market, Moscow, and with the holding of its 
largest biennial event, the Moscow International 
Oil & Gas Exhibition.
Headline diluted earnings per share of 16.6p  
is a 43% improvement on last year’s comparable 
figure of 1 1.6p per share; fully diluted earnings 
per share was 1 2.6p (2010: 9.8p). The Group 
has finished the year with a positive net cash 
balance of £5.5 million (2010: £23.0 million) 
after making investments of about £50 million 
to expand its portfolio of events. The Group 
remains highly cash generative and, as at  
25 November 201 1, had a net cash balance of  
£4.6 million, after paying for the recently 
announced Autoexpo acquisition. 
The Group made three important acquisitions 
in the year, all of which were consistent with 
its strategy for growth in its target emerging 
markets. MVK, primarily a Moscow exhibition 
business, was acquired in December 2010 and 
brought good market positions in sectors where 
ITE had little or no representation. The Group 
extended its presence in the growing regional 
markets of Russia by acquiring an exhibition 
business based in Krasnodar in March 201 1. In 
July 201 1, the Group completed the acquisition 
of 60% of Yapibuild which is the major 
construction event in Turkey.
Board and management
The Board has seen some changes during 
the year. Malcolm Wall moved abroad and 
consequently stepped down as a Non-executive 
Director at the end of August 201 1. I would like 
to thank Malcolm for his contribution over the 
last five years and particularly for chairing the 
Remuneration Committee since 2008. Linda 
Jensen joined the Board as a Non-executive 
Director in July 201 1. Linda has relevant and 
current experience having worked in Russia for 
five years and is now running a media business 
based in Eastern Europe. She brings to the 
Board substantial emerging market business 
knowledge. Neil England, who has been a 
Non-executive Director of the Group since 
2008, has taken on the role as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee.
To support its growth strategy, the Board has 
worked to strengthen further the executive 
and senior management team. Outstanding, 
committed employees support the management 
team throughout our territories and the Board 
would like to extend its thanks and appreciation 
for their efforts over the past year.
The Board fully supports the updated UK 
Corporate Governance Code and recognises 
that good governance supports the long-term 
health of the Group. We are conscious of our 
stewardship responsibilities including our role 
in setting values which underpin our Group 
culture. As Chairman, I am mindful of my 
personal responsibility for leading the Board 
and ensuring it operates effectively. The Board 
Effectiveness Review carried out during the 
year confirmed the Board and its Committees 
continue to work effectively and the insights 
provided have been used to set a clear action 
plan for the year ahead.
Dividend
The Board has a good record of maintaining 
a progressive dividend policy while ensuring 
earnings cover of more than two times across 
the biennial cycle. The interim dividend was 
increased from 1.7p to 1.9p and the proposed 
final dividend is 4.2p (2010: 4.0p), making a full 
dividend for the year of 6.1p (2010: 5.7p. The 
final dividend will be paid on 1 3 February 201 2.
Outlook
The Group has enjoyed a strong recovery in 
its core Moscow market. The regional markets 
in Russia have also enjoyed a recovery and 
the adjacent CIS markets are now showing 
improving results, albeit not yet as strongly 
as in Russia. There is expected to be further 
economic growth in Russia this year as well as a 
continuation of the recovery in the CIS markets.
At 25 November, forward bookings are 
£93 million which is in line with the Board’s 
expectations and on a basis represents growth 
of circa 8% over last year’s revenues booked at 
the same time. The Group has a strong portfolio 
of exhibitions in emerging and growing 
markets. With its cash flow and strong balance 
sheet, the Group is in an excellent position to 
continue to grow its business both organically 
and through selective acquisitions. The Board 
remains focused on executing its strategy and, 
whilst ITE is not immune to changes in the 
world economy, the Board remains confident  
of the Group’s future prospects. 
Iain Paterson
Non-executive Chairman
28 November 201 1
