 Chairman’s Statement
2
With the continuing development of the
mobile data market and the ever increasing
sophistication of mobile phones and users,
these are exciting times for iTouch.
Ivan Fallon Chairman
focus has been to acquire and integrate
Jippii, leverage our international presence
and develop our consumer brands to
secure a strong position as one of the
leading providers of mobile content in 
the world. We believe we are extremely
well positioned to take advantage of the
forecast growth in demand for mobile
content across Europe and beyond and 
we approach 2005 with confidence that 
it will be another year of significant
progress for the Group.
Ivan Fallon
Chairman
29 March 2005
provider based in Tokyo and listed on
JASDAQ. The agreement gives the Group
access to their vast range of content as
well as 3G know-how as European
operators begin to roll-out their 3G services.
For-side also made a strategic investment
in the Company purchasing 18.25m shares
at 29p each, representing 4.5% of the
enlarged share capital.
On 14 May 2004, Roland Denning joined
the Board of iTouch as a Non-Executive
Director. He brings an exceptional range of
experience and knowledge to the Group
which will be invaluable to us as iTouch
continues on its rapid expansion path.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to
welcome him to the Group. 
On 14 March 2005, we agreed to dispose
of iTouch Business Mobility, the corporate
PDA business, to continue our focus on
the consumer data market.
On the same date Avi Azulai resigned from
the Board. On behalf of the Board I would
like to thank Avi for his tremendous efforts
in helping establish iTouch as one of the
leading companies in the mobile data
market and wish him luck and every
success in his new ventures.
This has been a landmark year for the
Group which is reflected in another
excellent set of financial results. Our main
I am delighted to report on yet another
year of impressive growth for iTouch.
2004 saw the successful acquisition
and integration of Jippii, the Finnish
mobile services provider, for £8m and
the enhancement of the Group’s global
content offering through a strategic
agreement with the Japanese company,
For-side. Furthermore, the direct
channel model was rolled out into five
new territories proving that we have
a strong and scalable business model. 
In September, we announced our first
quarter of positive operating cash flow
since IPO. At the end of the year, the
Group had £13.1m cash. 
The final quarter produced an EBITDA
profit (before exceptionals) of £2.3m, an
increase of 142% on the previous year.
Following the acquisition of Jippii, the
Group now has a market presence in
25 countries and is connected to 95
network operators. Jippii alone has
European Premium SMS connectivity with
74 operators and, with a similar business
model to iTouch, the transaction reinforces
the Group’s position as a market leader
in Europe. 
During the year, iTouch signed an
important global licensing agreement with
For-side.com, a leading mobile services
