 During 2005 we have continued with our
programme of developing our business
and changing our operations to enable us
to take advantage of the rapidly evolving
digital television world. In early 2006 we
re-branded our operations, from a fresh
new look onscreen for our channels
through to new signage and logo for our
ITV production business. The feedback
from our viewers has been very positive.
Improving and simplifying our structure
During 2005 we made some changes to
simplify our management and structure,
and increase the focus on our core business.
Simon Shaps as Director of Television now
heads up our channels operations and he
has brought in a number of key new
commissioning executives. He is also
increasing the emphasis on US programme
acquisitions across all our channels.
Ian McCulloch heads up the commercial
operations, contracting with our
advertisers and marketing our channels 
and programmes. His role is to build
relationships directly with our advertising
customers, and to address the challenge 
of reducing the burden that CRR places
upon us.
Owning content and intellectual property
rights is key to ITV’s future success and
John Whiston, amongst our most talented
of programme makers, now heads up the
ITV production operation.
Jeff Henry has been developing our
consumer operations with a number of
successful organic developments and
acquisitions which are explained later.
We are also recruiting for a new head 
of our international production and
distribution operations.
Freeview growth
Freeview was the fastest growing
broadcasting platform across 2005 with
three-quarters of all households that went
digital choosing Freeview. We are actively
promoting our channels, both on air and in
other display media, and expect Freeview
rapidly to become the UK’s number one
digital television platform in 2006.
We acquired SDN in April 2005 for
£136 million. This acquisition boosts our
digital strategy (ITV now operates 38% 
of commercial DTT bandwidth). SDN
contributed £16 million of revenue in eight
months of 2005. The market rate for a
videostream in DTT has been increasing
and videostream contract renewals for SDN
begin in 2008. SDN has been an extremely
proﬁtable acquisition for our shareholders.
Channel schedule performance
Our new digital channels continued to grow
their audience share and in November 2005
we launched our latest channel, ITV4. This
channel is aimed at a male demographic
and its schedule includes a higher
proportion of US acquired material than our
other channels. ITV4 has attracted a 0.5%
share of multichannel viewing in its early
months on screen. ITV2 and ITV3 have
increased their viewing share in 2005 and
our share of commercial viewing across all
our channels in multichannel homes
increased by 7% to 32%.
As viewers move to the greater channel
choice available on digital television, the
viewing share of ITV1 inevitably decreases.
Under the CRR undertakings, agreed with
the Ofﬁce of Fair Trading as part of the 
ITV merger, the consequence of that is 
a proportionate decrease in the ITV1 
share of television advertising revenue.
During 2005 our ITV1 advertising revenue
was £50 million lower than in 2004.
The success of our new business operations
helped to increase our pro forma revenues
outside ITV1 advertising by £144 million
in 2005, more than offsetting the ITV1
reduction and increasing our revenues
from these sources from 27% of the total
last year to 33% of the total in 2005.
Chief Executive’s review
We are simplifying our operational
structure to increase the focus on
our core business, introducing key
new commissioning executives.
18 ITV plc 2005 annual report As digital television approaches universal
takeup in the near future, the downward
pressure on ITV1 viewing share and
revenues will slow, enabling ITV1 to return
to growth alongside our rapidly growing
digital channels.
In December, we took the difﬁcult decision
to close the ITV News Channel, as the
increasing opportunity cost of digital
transmission capacity made running a
commercial 24 hour news channel
economically unviable.
Developing non-ITV production assets 
in the UK and overseas
ITV productions had a very successful year,
we created Sex Trafﬁc for C4, Casanova for
the BBC, another series of Brainiac for Sky
and Countdown for C4.
International production (part of ITV
Worldwide) had another excellent year. 
In America we made Hell’s Kitchen and
Nanny 911 for Fox, both US primetime
shows that will return, Hit Me Baby for NBC,
Airline and 1st 48 for A&E and Roomraiders
for MTV. In Australia and Germany we
made a number of primetime shows for
the top broadcasters. We are able to create
and produce hits for international
broadcasters, increase our market share
and add the new material to our media
catalogue and distribution business.
We have increased the proﬁtability of
Granada International and extended our
third party distribution sales worldwide.
This includes such clients as HBO, Aardman,
CNN and Chorion. We have begun the
digitisation of our media catalogue and
have been trialling video-on-demand which
should develop into a new means of
content exploitation.
Growing consumer revenues
A major focus for ITV is the development 
of our consumer operations; those parts 
of our business that deliver products and
services directly to viewers who pay for
them through subscription, transactional 
or interactive revenues.
ITV Play is the brand name for a portfolio 
of “participation” TV formats designed to
engage our mass-market audiences in
high-quality original interactive
programming. ITV Play has been trialling
across our Channels in night time. We will
be launching a dedicated channel in April.
This has proved to be very popular and 
we are currently developing more Play
programming and formats which will be
shown across our family of channels
including online and mobile.
We have acquired Friends Reunited, the
UK’s leading reunion website. There are 
ﬁve separate business strands: the Schools
reunion site; Genes Reunited; dating and
jobs sites; and Connections, a general chat
room and message board site. The dating
and jobs sites can already be found within
our existing itv.com environment and we
are seeing increased trafﬁc as a result.
itv.com is ITV’s broadband site. Our aim
is to create a content-rich multimedia
proposition. itv.com will be restructured 
and relaunched as a broadband content 
on demand portal later in 2006; improving
functionality and consumer experience.
This will increase dwell times and stickiness
to drive subscription and advertising
revenues. Internet advertising is increasing
rapidly, and is likely to have overtaken radio
and outdoor in 2006.
ITV is a producer-broadcaster. We believe
that there will be an increasing competition
in Local Loop unbundling and that prices for
bandwidth will be driven towards marginal
cost. Consumers will pay for content, and
we will strive to ensure that in this world 
of convergence, where viewers may be able
to receive content via cable, satellite, DTT,
broadband or mobile, that ITV’s brand and
content are available for them to enjoy.
19
£144m
The increase in our non-ITV1 revenues 
in 2005.
Distribution
Quarterly numbers of digital homes added to each platform
0
Source: Ofcom digital television update
000s of 
quarterly
net additions
Sales to mid Feb
Q3 2004 Q4 2004 Q1 2005 Q2 2005 Q3 2005 Q4 2005(E) Q1 2006(E)
DSA T Pay Digital cable DSAT FTA DTT
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
Outlook
In 2005 our ﬁrst quarter advertising revenue
was particularly strong with Easter falling 
in March.
In 2006 both Easter and the Football World
Cup fall in the second quarter and will move
money into that period. As a result
advertising revenue has been lower in the
ﬁrst few months of 2006 and total ITV
advertising revenue will be down by
approximately 10% in the ﬁrst quarter.
In April we expect that ITV1 advertising
revenue will be up 2% year on year and 
our total advertising revenue will be up 
6% year on year.
People
I would like to join with Sir Peter Burt and
the rest of the Board in thanking all of our
employees for their continuing work and
dedication to the Company and to our
programmes and services. The broadcasting
world is seeing more change than many
other industries and we continue to lead
and embrace that change as we move
towards a fully digital environment in
which viewers are able to increase the level
of personalisation of their viewing from
more channels and prospectively from
delivery systems such as broadband.
We look forward to these changes and to
remaining the producer and broadcaster 
of many of the nation’s favourite shows.
Charles Allen CBE
Chief Executive
