 23043-04  10-12-2013  Proof 1
ITV Strategy
Our vision remains to create world-class content which we can make famous on our channels, and exploit across multiple 
platforms, both free and pay , in the UK and internationally . We have a clear and consistent strategy which is based on four 
key strategic priorities as follows:
Create a lean, creatively 
organisation
1
Maximise audience and revenue Drive new revenue streams by 
exploiting our content across 
multiple platforms, free and pay
3
Maximise audience and revenue 
share from our existing free-to-
air broadcast business
2
Build a strong international 
content business
4
Read more on Strategic Priority One on page 19
Read more on Strategic Priority Three on page 27
Read more on Strategic Priority Two on page 23 Read more on Strategic Priority Four on page 31
ITV is an integrated producer broadcaster, operating 
the largest commercial family of channels in the UK. In 
addition to traditional broadcasting on our channels, 
we deliver our content on demand through numerous 
platforms, both directly and via ITV Player. Through ITV 
Studios we produce content for both our own channels 
and third parties in the UK and increasingly overseas. 
Our distribution business sells finished programmes and 
formats worldwide.
ITV Total Revenues
£1,896m
£857m
 Broadcast & Online
ITV EBITA
£487m
£133m
 ITV Studios
Broadcast & Online
ITV broadcasts a wide variety of content on its family of 
free to air (FTA) channels consisting of ITV, the largest 
commercial television channel in the UK, and the digital 
channels, ITV2, ITV3, ITV4 and CITV. In 2014 we will launch 
ITVBe, our new FTA lifestyle and reality channel. The 
family of channels attracted a total share of viewing of 
23. 1% in 2013, the largest audience of any UK commercial 
broadcaster. Programming is primarily funded by 
television advertising revenues. ITV has the largest share 
of our estimate of the UK television advertising market at 
45.4% in 2013. 
In addition to linear broadcast, ITV delivers its content 
across multiple platforms. This is either through ITV 
Player , available on ITV’s website, itv.com, and platforms 
such as Virgin and Sky, or through direct content deals 
with services such as Lovefilm and Netflix. ITV’s content  
is now available on 19 platforms and in 2014 we will 
launch our new pay channel, ITV Encore, on Sky. 
ITV Studios
ITV Studios is the Group’s international content 
business. It is the largest production company in the 
UK and produces programming for ITV’s own channels 
and for other broadcasters such as the BBC, Channel 4 
and Sky. ITV Studios also operates in five international 
locations, the US, Australia, Germany, France and the 
Nordics, producing content for local broadcasters in 
these regions. This content is either locally created IP 
or created elsewhere by ITV, mainly the UK. We have 
made a number of acquisitions in the UK, US and the 
Nordics as we look to build our international business. 
Global Entertainment, ITV’s distribution business, 
licenses ITV’s finished programmes and formats and 
third party content internationally. 
ITV at a Glance
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Overview
04
04-05 ITV at a glance.indd   4 28/02/2014   12:01:21
