 03 Phytopharm plc Report and accounts 2007
Chief Executive’s review
Developing
Measuring our success against 
our key strategic objectives:
Delivering
Upon my appointment to Chief Executive 
in January 2007, I implemented a series of 
strategic objectives that included rationalising 
our pipeline while improving our ability to 
develop our products. 
With the appointment of Piers Morgan as 
Chief Financial Officer in January 2007, 
the management team is strengthened, 
bringing significant benefits to the Board 
and the Company.
Over the period we have continued to make 
good progress in clinical trials with our weight 
management product, Hoodia extract, and 
advanced successfully into the final development 
stage prior to registration and launch with our 
partner Unilever, in September 2007. This final 
development stage includes supply chain 
expansion and consumer studies that will 
evaluate reductions in calorie intake as part 
of a weight management programme in the 
general population. 
It is encouraging that sales of our canine skin 
health product, Phytopica
®
, by our partner 
Schering-Plough have exceeded expectations 
(103% growth on an annualised basis) and 
A broad, balanced portfolio of 
products with diversified risk 
and substantial potential value
On our strategy to create value 
for our shareholders
that their European rollout has begun with 
launches in Italy in March 2007 and France 
in April 2007.
Over the period we have made steady progress 
with our pharmaceutical products in clinical 
development. We have successfully advanced 
Myogane
™
 for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
(ALS) through a Phase Ib healthy volunteer 
clinical trial in July 2007 and we requested EU 
orphan medicinal product status for Myogane
™
 
in December 2007. We have also demonstrated 
that in preclinical models of Parkinson ’s 
disease, Cogane
™
 reverses the neuronal 
damage and elevates glial-derived neurotrophic 
factor (GDNF) in the area of the brain involved 
in Parkinson ’s disease. Elevation of GDNF 
has been shown to improve symptoms in 
Parkinson ’s disease patients. 
One of our strategic objectives is to share the 
cost and risk of product development while 
increasing long term shareholder value. The 
data from our pharmaceutical products has 
generated considerable interest from charitable 
organisations and we are finalising strategic 
financial support from these organisations for 
further development activities.
Our key strategic objectives:
Phytopharm has developed a broad portfolio of 
products with diversified risk and substantial 
value. Our functional food products are now 
generating revenue. Our partner Schering-
Plough continues its European rollout of 
Phytopica
®
 with revenues exceeding expectations 
and with their global presence we look forward 
to continued growth. Meanwhile, Unilever is 
fully funding our programme for Hoodia extract, 
and we look forward to generating royalty 
income in the near future on product launch.
We operate with a low cash burn and with 
strategic financial support being finalised 
from charitable organisations to develop 
further our pharmaceutical products Cogane
™
 
and Myogane
™
, we will continue to reduce our 
net development costs while increasing long 
term shareholder value. By delivering on our 
strategic objectives, we look forward with 
confidence to building on our achievements 
and reporting on the continued development 
of our pipeline over the coming year.
Dr Daryl Rees
Chief Executive Officer
