 Business Review Phytopharm plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 1
06
Chief Executive’s review
Mr	Tim	Sharpington	Chief	Executive	Officer
Phytopharm	has	made	good	progress	in	2011.	
We	have	focused	our	efforts	and	resources	
on advancing	the	projects	in	our	pharmaceutical	
pipeline	and	these	programmes	remain	on	
track	to	reach	significant	milestones	in	the	
coming	year.	Our	lead	programmes	target	
neurodegenerative	diseases,	including	
Parkinson’s	disease,	Amyotrophic	Lateral	Sclerosis	
(ALS,	the	common	form	of	motor	neurone	
disease)	and	glaucoma.	These	diseases	share	a	
common	feature,	the	degeneration	of	neurones.	
There	is	a	significant	unmet	medical	need	for	
new	treatments	which	can	slow	or	halt	the	
progression	of	these	diseases	–	disease	modifying	
therapies	–	as	currently	available	medicines	
focus	largely	on	reducing	the	symptoms	of	
disease	rather	than	tackling	their	underlying	
cause.	Phytopharm’s	lead	development	
compounds,	Cogane™	and	Myogane™,	have	
demonstrated	disease	modifying	potential	
in a broad	range	of	experimental	models.	
If this	potential	translates	into	clinical	efficacy	
then Cogane™	and	Myogane™	will	provide	
significant	breakthroughs	in	the	treatment	
of neurodegenerative	diseases.
During	the	past	year	the	Company	has	presented	
new	data	which	supports	the	potential	use	
of Cogane™	and	Myogane™	as	new	treatments	
of	neurodegenerative	diseases.	We	have	also	
In Summary
•	 	 We	have	focused	our	efforts	and	resources	
on advancing	the	projects	in	our	pharmaceutical	
pipeline	and	these	programmes	remain	on	track	
to	reach	significant	milestones	in	the	coming	year.
•	 	 Around	the	end	of	2012	we	will	receive	the	
results	from	our	400	patient,	Phase	II	study	
of Cogane™	in	Parkinson’s	disease.
•	 	 We	have	also	worked	on	the	development	of	our	
novel	anti‑inflammatory	project,	P61.	Though	this	
project	is	at	an	early	stage	of	development	it	has	
made	good	progress	this	year.
•	 	 The	Company	has	been	successful	in	securing	
grant	funding	to	support	some	of	its	activities.
initiated	long‑term	studies	which	will	read	
out in	2012.	In	the	early	part	of	2012	we	
are expecting	results	from	new	preclinical	
studies in	ALS	and	glaucoma.	Around	the	
end of	2012	we	will	receive	the	results	
from our	400	patient,	Phase	II	study	of	
Cogane™	in	Parkinson’s	disease.	The	study	
of neurodegenerative	diseases	does,	by	
its nature,	take	some	time	and	everyone	
in the Company	is	focused	on	delivering	a	
high‑quality	study	as	efficiently	as	possible.	
The	Company	has	been	successful	in	securing	
grant	funding	to	support	some	of	its	activities.	
We	were	grateful	to	receive	financial	support	
for	our	ongoing	ALS	study	from	the	Motor	
Neurone	Disease	Association	whilst	the	
Technology	Strategy	Board	agreed	to	provide	
a grant	to	help	support	a	study	of	Myogane™	
in	glaucoma.	These	grants,	together	with	our	
virtual	staffing	model,	have	helped	us	to	move	
our	programmes	forward	whist	maintaining	
tight	cost	control.	Our	spending	has	been	in	
line	with	expectations	and	is	focused	on	our	
research	and	development	activities.
As	we	move	closer	to	obtaining	the	results	
from	our	clinical	study	in	Parkinson’s	disease,	
we	have	started	the	planning	process	for	our	
next	steps.	We	have	initiated	discussions	with	 Business Review Phytopharm plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 1
07
a number	of	pharmaceutical	companies	who	
are	interested	in	our	products	and,	while	we	
do	not	anticipate	concluding	significant	deals	
until	after	the	completion	of	our	ongoing	studies,	
we	have	been	pleased	with	the	initial	level	
of interest	expressed.	
In	addition	to	Cogane™	and	Myogane™	we	
have	also	worked	on	the	development	of	our	
novel	anti‑inflammatory	project,	P61.	Though	
this	project	is	at	an	early	stage	of	development	
it	has	made	good	progress	this	year.	A	lead	
compound	has	been	identified	and	a	number	
of	early	development	checkpoints	have	been	
successfully	passed.	We	are	looking	forward	
to testing	this	compound	in	a	number	of	disease	
models	next	year.
We	are	very	grateful	for	the	ongoing	support	
of	our	staff	and	shareholders.	Developing	new	
treatments	for	neurodegenerative	diseases	
is time	consuming,	expensive	and	not	without	
risk.	However,	there	are	significant	rewards	for	
developing	successful	new	treatments,	both	
in terms	of	benefits	to	those	affected	by	these	
diseases	and	in	terms	of	commercial	returns	
for	companies	and	their	shareholders.	We	are	
making	good	progress	with	our	developments	
and	are	confident	of	delivering	good	value	for	
shareholders	if	our	ongoing	studies	show	the	
same	level	of	benefit	as	those	performed	to	date.
Mr T Sharpington
Chief	Executive	Officer
Neurodegenerative diseases
Cogane™ and Myogane™ have demonstrated disease modifying 
potential in a broad range of experimental models. If this potential 
translates into clinical efficacy then Cogane™ and Myogane™ 
will provide significant breakthroughs in the treatment 
of neurodegenerative diseases.
Unmet need Dosage CONFIDENT-PD Market
There is a significant unmet medial need 
for new treatments which can slow or 
halt the progression of these diseases.
Both compounds have been formulated 
as once daily, orally administered therapies.
Cogane
TM
 is being studied in a Phase II 
trial of early stage Parkinson’s disease 
(CONFIDENT-PD) in movement disorder 
centres in North America and Europe.
The prevalence of Parkinson’s disease 
is estimated at being 0.3% of the whole 
population in industrialised countries.
