 Business Review Phytopharm plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 1
04
Chairman’s review
“ The coming year is going to be a critical 
one for the Company. Success in our 
ongoing studies is likely to bring good 
returns to Phytopharm.”
Mr	Alistair	Taylor	Non‑Executive	Chairman
Following	a	year	of	re‑organisation	and	
consolidation	in	2010,	Phytopharm	has	been	
delivering	on	its	objectives	in	2011.	The	Company,	
much	leaner	and	more	focused	than	in	previous	
years,	is	on	plan	and	budget	to	deliver	significant	
results	from	its	pharmaceutical	development	
projects	in	2012.	
Over	the	past	year	the	Company	has	produced	
new	supportive	data	in	Parkinson’s	disease,	ALS	
and	glaucoma;	has	been	granted	Orphan	Drug	
status	for	Cogane™	in	ALS	in	both	the	US	and	
Europe;	has	been	successful	in	attracting	grant	
funding	for	its	ALS	and	glaucoma	projects;	and	
has	initiated	a	large,	multinational	Phase	II	study	
in	Parkinson’s	disease	which	is	on	target	to	report	
around	the	end	of	2012.	Importantly	the	Company	
has	been	very	efficient	in	its	cost	control.	In	the	
current	economic	climate	it	is	heartening	that	
Phytopharm	retains	a	cash	runway	until	the	
end	of	2013,	sufficient	to	complete	its	current	
studies	and	allow	time	to	negotiate	whatever	
deals	may	follow.
The	coming	year	is	going	to	be	a	critical	one	
for	the	Company.	Results	from	ongoing	projects,	
particularly	the	clinical	trial	in	Parkinson’s	disease,	
have	the	potential	to	be	major	value	drivers	
and	the	management	team	are	working	hard	
in	order	to	deliver	high‑quality	studies.
Success	in	our	ongoing	studies	is	likely	to	bring	
good	returns	to	Phytopharm.	Whilst	it	is	true	that	
we	are	operating	in	a	difficult	environment	at	
the	current	time,	it	is	also	true	that	the	majority	
of	large	pharmaceutical	companies	are	looking	
to	external	sources	in	order	to	replenish	their	
product	pipelines	and	that	high	value	deals	are	
being	concluded	for	attractive	new	products.	
We	believe	that	Cogane™	and	Myogane™	
fall into	this	category,	with	the	potential	to	
provide	important	advances	in	the	treatment	
of	neurodegenerative	diseases	and,	ultimately,	
provide	the	basis	of	good	returns	for	shareholders.
We	thank	you	for	your	ongoing	support	and	
look	forward	to	delivering	exciting	new	data	
in 2012.
Mr A H Taylor
Non‑Executive	Chairman Business Review Phytopharm plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 1
05
Cogane
TM 
and Myogane
TM
 are orally bioavailable 
neurotrophic factor modulators that readily cross the 
blood-brain barrier. They have been shown to induce 
and modulate the production of neurotrophic factors.
Many neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson’s disease, ALS, glaucoma 
and Alzheimer’s disease, occur as a result of neurodegenerative processes that 
exhibit many similarities suggesting that these diseases are related on a sub-cellular 
level. Because of the similarities in neurodegeneration across this range of diseases, 
there is hope that therapeutic advances, such as Phytopharm’s lead pharmaceutical 
programmes Cogane™ and Myogane™, could be beneficial in more than one of 
these diseases.
Dopaminergic neurones Retinal ganglion cells Spinal motor neurones
