 Phytopharm plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
for a healthier future
Phytopharm Who we are
Developing novel treatments targeting 
diseases with high levels of unmet need.
Phytopharm (LSE:PYM) is a development-stage 
pharmaceutical company. Our lead series of 
compounds has the potential to be a new class 
of therapy for neurodegenerative diseases.
Our lead programme is in clinical trials for Parkinson’s disease, 
a $3 billion market with a significant unmet need.
Our CONFIDENT-PD clinical 
study is expected to generate 
clinical data in February 2013, 
which, if positive, will allow us to 
maximise shareholder value by 
seeking late-stage development 
and/or commercial partners 
as appropriate.
We operate with a low 
headcount and minimal 
infrastructure. This lean 
operational structure 
confers substantial cost 
and technical benefits.
We have cash resources to 
fund the Group’s ongoing 
activities until at least the 
end of Q1 2014.
Read more about our strategy on page 2
Read more about our product development 
on pages 6 to 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Phytopharm plc
Business highlights
Business Overview
01
Operational
 Recruitment into CONFIDENT-PD Phase II clinical trial of 
Cogane™ in untreated patients with early-stage Parkinson’s 
disease was completed in April 2012 and the last patient 
completed the trial in early December 2012. Results from 
the trial remain on track to be available in February 2013.
 Cogane™ demonstrated efficacy in the “gold standard” 
preclinical model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (“ALS”), 
the most common form of motor neurone disease. Positive 
data have now been obtained in four models of ALS, providing 
a strong rationale for Cogane™ as a potential treatment for 
this devastating condition.
 Preparation for a Phase I clinical trial to evaluate Cogane™ solid 
dose oral formulations for up to 28 days has been initiated.
 A study of Myogane™ in a preclinical model of glaucoma 
was inconclusive due to an unexpectedly low neuronal cell 
loss in the control group which prevented evaluation of a 
neuroprotective effect of Myogane™.
Corporate
 Dr Ian Tulloch was appointed as a non-executive Board 
director in February 2012. As planned, Mr Sandy Morrison 
stepped down from the Board following the Company’s 
Annual General Meeting in March 2012.
Financial
 Loss after tax of £7.77 million in line with expectations reflects 
ongoing focus on the development of our pharmaceutical 
programmes (2011: £7.66 million).
 Cash and money market investments of £8.89 million 
(2011: £17.57 million). Based on our current expectations 
Phytopharm is financed until at least the end of Q1 2014.
Contents
Business Overview
IFC Who we are
01 Business highlights
02 Strategy
Business Review
04 Chairman’s review
05 Chief Executive’s review
06 Business review
11 Financial review
Corporate Governance
14  Principal risks and uncertainties
16 Board of Directors
17 Directors’ report
22 Remuneration report
28 Corporate governance report
36  Statement of 
Directors’ responsibilities
Financial Statements
37 Independent auditors’ report
39  Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
40  Consolidated and Company 
balance sheets
41  Consolidated statement 
of changes in equity
42  Company statement  
of changes in equity
43  Consolidated and Company 
cash flow statements
44 Notes to the financial statements
Shareholder information can be found 
on pages 63, 64 and IBC.
visit us online at 
www.phytopharm.com
