 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Phytopharm plc
05
Business Review
Chief Executive’s review
“ Over the last year the Group has continued to focus on 
the development of its pharmaceutical programmes whilst 
maintaining tight financial control. Operationally, good 
progress has been made in the development of our lead 
programme Cogane™.”
Mr Tim Sharpington Chief Executive Officer
Over the last year the Group has continued to 
focus on the development of its pharmaceutical 
programmes whilst maintaining tight financial 
control. Operationally, good progress has 
been made in the development of our lead 
programme Cogane™ in Parkinson’s disease 
and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (“ALS”) 
and on the development of our preclinical 
anti-inflammatory project, P61, though our 
development of Myogane™ in glaucoma did 
suffer a setback with an inconclusive study.
Phytopharm continues to operate a cost-effective, 
virtual model, with just 13 staff, enabling us to 
focus our expenditure on our research and 
development programmes. Our experienced 
staff are complemented by a network of 
leading scientists and clinicians who provide 
guidance on the design and implementation 
of our projects.
Cogane™ and Myogane™ are first-in-class 
development stage medicines with the 
potential to be important new treatments for 
a wide range of neurodegenerative diseases. 
These diseases, including Parkinson’s disease, 
ALS and glaucoma, are characterised by ongoing 
neuronal degeneration with devastating 
consequences for those affected. There is a 
large medical and commercial unmet need 
for new treatments which can slow or halt 
the progression of these diseases. 
Cogane™ and Myogane™ have been shown to be 
both neuroprotective (protecting neurones from 
degeneration) and neurorestorative (restoring 
functionality to damaged and dormant neurones) 
in a wide range of industry-standard preclinical 
models conducted in independent laboratories 
around the world. The next crucial step is to 
determine whether this preclinical promise 
translates into real clinical benefit to patients and it 
is this question which our ongoing clinical trial in 
Parkinson’s disease has been designed to answer.
Leading movement disorder centres in North 
America and Europe have treated more than 
400 patients with either Cogane™ or placebo 
for 28 weeks and are assessing signs of efficacy, 
safety and tolerability. Patients will have 
completed the study in December 2012 and 
we will receive data in February 2013. The results 
of this study represent a major milestone for 
Phytopharm and are eagerly awaited.
Whilst conducting the study we have also been 
planning for next steps. If successful, Cogane™ 
will need to undergo Phase III registration 
studies in Parkinson’s disease before receiving 
marketing authorisation. Detailed plans for 
these next studies have been put in place. 
In addition, the Group has had very positive 
responses in initial discussions with larger 
pharmaceutical companies who represent 
potential licensing partners for Cogane™. 
The best way forward for Cogane™ in 
Parkinson’s disease will be determined 
once data are received.
Cogane™ has also demonstrated good 
potential in ALS, the most common form 
of motor neurone disease. ALS is a rapidly 
progressing, devastating condition with very 
limited treatment options. During the past 
year the preclinical programme for ALS has 
been completed. Positive data has been 
generated in four preclinical models of ALS, 
providing strong support for progressing into 
clinical trials. The latest of these studies, the 
results of which were announced earlier this 
year, was supported by a grant from the 
Motor Neurone Disease Association and we 
are grateful for their support. Cogane™ has 
been granted orphan drug designation in both 
the US and Europe which offers the potential 
for an expedited development programme 
and additional value from the programme.
As we approach key development milestones 
in the coming year, which will have a significant 
impact on the Group’s prospects, plans are being 
put in place to respond to results in a way which 
maximises value for our shareholders. Finally, 
I would like to thank our Board members and 
staff for their contribution during the year and 
our shareholders for their continued support.
Mr T Sharpington
Chief Executive Officer
