 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Phytopharm plc Business Review
04
“ Phytopharm is very much on track to deliver on the 
objective outlined as part of the November 2009 
equity financing.”
Chairman’s review
Mr Alistair Taylor Non-executive Chairman
During the year the Group once again made 
good progress against its stated objectives. 
I am pleased to be able to report that Phytopharm 
is very much on track to deliver on the objectives 
outlined as part of the November 2009 equity 
financing: principally, to finance the development 
of lead product, Cogane™, through Phase I and II
clinical studies in Parkinson’s disease; and to 
retain a one year cash runway at the conclusion 
of these studies. Having completed patient 
recruitment into the CONFIDENT-PD clinical trial 
in early-stage Parkinson’s disease patients earlier 
this year, we are looking forward to receiving the 
results from the trial in February 2013. Once 
received, the Board will work with the Group’s 
management team to determine the best way 
forward to maximise value for shareholders.
The past year saw some changes to our 
Board. After giving over five years of valuable 
service to the Group Sandy Morrison stepped 
down as a non-executive director in March 
this year. The Board would like to acknowledge 
the valuable contribution Sandy made to the 
Group, particularly in stepping in as interim 
Chief Executive Officer during a period of 
transition in 2009/2010. Sandy has been 
succeeded on the Board by Dr Ian Tulloch. 
Ian has recently retired from his position 
as Global Head of Marketing, Neuroscience 
and Ophthalmology at Novartis and his 
experience will be of great value as we 
develop the commercial strategy for our 
pharmaceutical pipeline.
The coming year will be of great importance 
to Phytopharm and we will continue to keep 
you apprised of our progress and plans. Until 
then I would like to thank the management 
team and staff for the excellent job they have 
performed in the past year and shareholders 
for their continued support.
Mr A Taylor
Non-executive Chairman
