 2 J Sainsbury plc	 Annual	 Report	 and	 Financial	 Statements	 2012
Business	 review
Chairman’s letter
David Tyler
Chairman
Dear shareholder,
Your Board is pleased to report 
on what has been a good year for 
Sainsbury’s. We have continued 
to outperform the market for a 
number of years by remaining 
true to our values of providing 
great quality, service and value  
to our customers. 
Underlying	 profit	 before	 tax	 was	 up	 7.1	 per	 cent	 to	 £712	 million.	
Underlying	 earnings	 per	 share	 were	 up	 6.0	 per	 cent	 to	 28.1	
pence.	 This	 year,	 your	 Board	 recommends	 a	 final	 dividend	 of	 	
11.6	 pence	 per	 share,	 making	 a	 full-year	 dividend	 of	 16.1	 pence,	
which	 is	 an	 increase	 of	 6.6	 per	 cent	 over	 the	 previous	 year,	
covered	 1.75	 times	 by	 underlying	 earnings.	 Sainsbury’s	 remains	
focused	 on	 delivering	 returns	 to	 shareholders.	 The	 Board	 plans	
to	 increase	 the	 dividend	 each	 year	 and	 now	 intends	 to	 build	
cover	 to	 two	 times	 over	 the	 medium	 term.	
A winning team
I	 would	 like	 to	 thank	 all	 of	 our	 colleagues	 for	 their	 efforts	
in	 providing	 excellent	 service	 to	 our	 customers.	 Our	 people	
are,	 of	 course,	 the	 face	 of	 Sainsbury’s,	 and	 are	 central	 to	 our	
ongoing	 success.	 We	 continue	 to	 invest	 in	 their	 training	 and	
development,	 and	 in	 ensuring	 Sainsbury’s	 is	 a	 great	 place	 to	
work.	 I	 am	 delighted	 that	 they	 share	 in	 a	 bonus	 of	 over	 £60	
million	 this	 year,	 meaning	 that	 over	 the	 last	 five	 years	 we	 will	
have	 awarded	 over	 £300	 million	 to	 colleagues	 in	 this	 way.
This	 year	 we	 have	 added	 strength	 and	 depth	 to	 our	
management	 team.	 In	 January	 2012,	 Sarah	 Warby	 joined	 the	
Operating	 Board	 as	 Marketing	 Director,	 having	 previously	 	
been	 UK	 Marketing	 Director	 at	 Heineken.	 We	 also	 changed	
two	 roles	 on	 the	 Operating	 Board	 in	 March	 2012.	 Helen	 Buck,	
previously	 Convenience	 Director,	 became	 Retail	 Director	
responsible	 for	 performance	 across	 our	 supermarket	 estate;	
and	 Roger	 Burnley,	 previously	 Retail	 and	 Logistics	 Director,	
became	 Managing	 Director,	 General	 Merchandise,	 Clothing	 	
and	 Logistics,	 leading	 our	 growing	 non-food	 business	 while	
retaining	 responsibility	 for	 logistics.	 		 Annual	 Report	 and	 Financial	 Statements	 2012	 J Sainsbury plc 3
Chairman’s letter continued
In	 May	 2012	 we	 announced	 that	 Bob	 Stack	 has	 decided	 to	
stand	 down	 as	 a	 Non-Executive	 Director	 of	 our	 plc	 Board	 at	 the	
AGM	 in	 July	 2012.	 I	 would	 like	 to	 thank	 Bob	 for	 his	 outstanding	
contribution	 since	 his	 appointment	 in	 January	 2005,	 both	
as	 a	 valued	 member	 of	 the	 Board	 and	 as	 Chairman	 of	 our	
Remuneration	 Committee.	 During	 his	 tenure,	 the	 Remuneration	
Committee	 has	 progressively	 introduced	 a	 range	 of	 plans	 which	
have	 effectively	 incentivised	 management	 through	 the	 recovery	
and	 growth	 phases	 of	 the	 last	 seven	 and	 a	 half	 years,	 which	 has	
been	 very	 much	 in	 shareholders’	 best	 interests.	 Sainsbury’s	
has	 developed	 a	 sound	 reputation	 for	 strong	 governance	 of	
remuneration	 while	 he	 has	 chaired	 the	 Committee.
Mary	 Harris	 will	 succeed	 Bob	 as	 Chairman	 of	 the	 Committee	 and	
we	 are	 currently	 conducting	 a	 search	 for	 a	 new	 Non-Executive	
Director	 to	 join	 the	 Board.	
The value of our values 
Our	 unique	 values	 and	 strong	 culture	 are	 at	 the	 heart	 of	 the	
Company’s	 success.	 This	 remains	 as	 true	 today	 as	 it	 was	 143	
years	 ago.	 In	 October	 2011,	 we	 published	 a	 new	 20	 by	 20	
Sustainability	 Plan	 with	 bold	 targets.	 We	 believe	 they	 are	 key	
to	 the	 long-term	 sustainability	 of	 our	 business	 and	 can	 bring	
increased	 sales,	 deeper	 customer	 loyalty	 and	 greater	 efficiency,	
as	 well	 as	 improved	 colleague	 development	 and	 satisfaction,	 	
all	 ultimately	 contributing	 to	 shareholder	 value.
Outlook
The	 wider	 economic	 situation	 looks	 likely	 to	 remain	 uncertain,	
but	 by	 helping	 our	 customers	 make	 their	 money	 go	 further	
and	 Live Well for Less,	 we	 have	 demonstrated	 we	 can	 succeed	
against	 this	 backdrop.	 Furthermore,	 the	 business	 has	 some	
exciting	 growth	 opportunities	 including	 our	 multi-channel	
strategy	 to	 help	 our	 customers	 to	 shop	 the	 way	 they	 want,	 and	
our	 store	 space	 strategy	 which	 brings	 our	 great	 food,	 clothing	
and	 general	 merchandise	 to	 new	 customers.
We	 have	 laid	 strong	 foundations	 for	 growth.	 Your	 Board	 believes	
these	 will	 allow	 us	 to	 achieve	 our	 vision	 to	 be	 the	 most	 trusted	
retailer	 where	 people	 love	 to	 work	 and	 shop.
David Tyler
Chairman
“
  Sainsbury’s remains 
focused on delivering 
returns to shareholders. 
The Board plans to 
increase the dividend 
each year.”
Proposed full year 
dividend 16.1p, up 
6.6%, cover 1.75x
Business	 review
16.1p
dividend
