 4 J Sainsbury plc	 Annual	 Report	 and	 Financial	 Statements	 2012
Chief Executive’s letter
Dear shareholder,
Having achieved 29 quarters 
of like-for-like sales growth, 
Sainsbury’s is not only a strong 
business with a successful core 
of food and non-food retailing, 
but also a business with real 
opportunities for further growth. 
We remain focused on doing 
a great job for customers and 
helping them Live Well for Less.
Our	 market	 share	 is	 its	 highest	 for	 nearly	 a	 decade,	 driven	 by	
underlying	 market	 beating	 like-for-like	 sales	 growth	 of	 2.1	 per	
cent	 excluding	 fuel.	 In	 the	 business	 review	 you	 will	 see	 how	
we	 are	 building	 towards	 a	 future	 of	 continued	 success.	 We	 are	
confident	 that	 our	 investment	 plans	 will	 drive	 further	 growth,	
while	 contributing	 to	 additional	 improvements	 in	 returns.	 	
Helping customers Live Well for Less
We	 believe	 in	 quality	 for	 everyone,	 in	 everything	 we	 do.	 We	 now	
have	 22	 million	 customer	 transactions	 a	 week,	 an	 increase	 of	
one	 million	 on	 last	 year.	 We	 have	 succeeded	 by	 understanding	
what	 our	 customers	 want	 and	 delivering	 universal	 appeal	 to	
help	 them	 Live Well for Less.	 They	 want	 a	 great	 deal,	 whether	
they	 are	 on	 a	 tight	 budget,	 have	 a	 bit	 more	 to	 spend	 or	 simply	
want	 to	 treat	 themselves.	 In	 Brand Match	 we	 now	 have	 the	 best	
and	 simplest	 tool	 in	 the	 market	 to	 help	 customers	 appreciate	
our	 great	 value.	 Similarly,	 our	 Nectar	 loyalty	 programme	
continues	 to	 be	 a	 key	 source	 of	 competitive	 advantage.	 The	 data	
enables	 us	 to	 understand	 our	 customers	 better	 and	 to	 offer	
them	 efficient,	 meaningful	 and	 targeted	 promotions,	 which	 in	
turn	 helps	 us	 increase	 customer	 loyalty.
Great food
Offering	 great	 food	 at	 fair	 prices	 remains	 at	 the	 heart	 of	 what	
we	 do.	 While	 price	 remains	 important,	 customers	 do	 not	 want	
to	 compromise	 on	 quality	 and	 demand	 great	 service.	 We	 have	
invested	 heavily	 in	 this	 over	 recent	 years	 and	 will	 continue	 to	
do	 so.	 One	 of	 our	 20 by 20 Sustainability Plan	 commitments	
is	 to	 double	 the	 amount	 of	 British	 food	 we	 sell	 by	 2020,	 and	
this	 year	 we	 sold	 more	 British	 produce	 than	 ever	 before.	 Our	
own	 label	 investment	 goes	 from	 strength	 to	 strength	 and	 we	
are	 seeing	 tangible	 results,	 with	 nearly	 nine	 per	 cent	 growth	 in	
Taste the Difference,	 over	 half	 of	 our	 by	 Sainsbury’s	 products	
improved	 and	 re-launched,	 and	 basics	 now	 the	 second	 biggest	
supermarket	 value	 brand.
Opportunities for continuing growth
Justin King
Chief	 Executive
Business	 review 		 Annual	 Report	 and	 Financial	 Statements	 2012	 J Sainsbury plc 5
Chief Executive’s letter continued
Compelling general merchandise and clothing
Our	 general	 merchandise	 and	 clothing	 businesses	 continue	 to	
grow	 faster	 than	 our	 food	 business	 and	 gain	 share	 in	 fiercely	
competitive	 markets.	 Direct	 sourcing,	 in	 particular,	 has	 helped	
us	 forge	 better	 relationships	 with	 our	 suppliers	 and	 provide	
better	 deals	 for	 our	 customers.	 		
Complementary channels and services
Customers	 expect	 to	 shop	 whenever,	 wherever	 and	 however	
best	 suits	 them.	 We	 see	 the	 opportunities	 this	 provides	 and	
are	 integrating	 new	 technology,	 channels	 and	 services	 into	 our	
business	 to	 serve	 customers	 in	 new	 ways.	 We	 have	 the	 fastest-
growing	 online	 business	 of	 any	 major	 food	 retailer.	 We	 have	 a	
convenience	 business	 of	 scale	 that	 is	 expanding	 by	 one	 to	 two	
stores	 a	 week,	 growing	 total	 and	 like-for-like	 sales	 well	 ahead	 of	
the	 market,	 and	 helping	 customers	 to	 shop	 locally	 and	 manage	
their	 weekly	 bills.	 We	 already	 have	 a	 Click & Collect	 facility	 in	
over	 900	 stores,	 one	 of	 the	 UK’s	 largest	 networks,	 designed	
to	 make	 shopping	 easier	 and	 more	 flexible.	 We	 will	 continue	 to	
invest	 in	 these	 channels,	 and	 to	 find	 new	 ways	 to	 improve	 the	
customer	 experience.
Developing new business
We	 are	 also	 investing	 beyond	 our	 core	 and	 developing	 new	
business.	 By	 moving	 into	 areas	 that	 are	 a	 natural	 extension	 	
of	 our	 brand	 –	 such	 as	 banking,	 pharmacy	 and	 energy	 –	 we	 aim	
to	 grow	 value	 based	 on	 the	 trust	 people	 have	 in	 Sainsbury’s,	
our	 colleagues	 and	 our	 values.	 Sainsbury’s	 Bank	 has	 enjoyed	
another	 successful	 year	 with	 a	 40	 per	 cent	 increase	 in	 pre-
tax	 operating	 profit.	 Our	 strategy	 of	 rewarding	 Sainsbury’s	
shoppers	 with	 double	 Nectar	 points	 for	 choosing	 to	 bank	 with	
us	 has	 been	 a	 major	 factor	 in	 this	 growth.	
Growing space and creating property value
Growing	 our	 UK	 sales	 space	 remains	 central	 to	 our	 strategy.	
This	 year	 we	 opened	 a	 further	 1.4	 million	 sq	 ft	 of	 space,	
adding	 19	 new	 supermarkets	 and	 73	 new	 convenience	 stores	
to	 our	 estate.	 We	 also	 extended	 28	 stores	 by	 an	 average	 of	
18,000	 sq	 ft,	 as	 we	 continue	 to	 bring	 our	 non-food	 ranges	 to	
more	 UK	 customers.	 There	 are	 areas	 of	 the	 country	 where	 we	
do	 not	 yet	 have	 a	 strong	 presence,	 and	 we	 continue	 to	 expand	
our	 coverage	 to	 reach	 them.	 At	 the	 same	 time	 we	 are	 also	
creating	 valuable	 property	 assets	 for	 our	 shareholders	 and	 our	
property	 estate	 is	 now	 valued	 at	 £11.2	 billion,	 with	 development	
activity	 delivering	 £83	 million	 property	 profits	 this	 year.	 We	 will	
continue	 to	 use	 these	 assets	 to	 help	 fund	 our	 growth.
Operational excellence
When	 we	 invest	 in	 new	 stores,	 technology	 or	 processes,	
we	 do	 so	 with	 strict	 control	 of	 the	 capital	 spent	 to	 ensure	
appropriate	 returns.	 By	 carefully	 managing	 costs	 we	 have	
improved	 operating	 margins	 yet	 further,	 with	 over	 £100	
million	 of	 operational	 savings	 this	 year,	 contributing	 to	 almost	
£600	 million	 of	 cost	 savings	 over	 five	 years.	 This	 is	 a	 result	
of	 improved	 productivity,	 ongoing	 procurement	 savings	 and	
simplification	 of	 in-store	 processes.	
“
  Our customers trust Sainsbury’s  
to do the right thing and expect 
us to maintain high social, 
ethical and environmental 
standards across all aspects  
of our business.”
Our values make us different
We	 have	 a	 clear	 vision:	 to	 be	 the	 most	 trusted	 retailer,	 where	
people	 love	 to	 work	 and	 shop.	 Our	 goal	 is	 to	 make	 all	 our	
customers’	 lives	 easier	 every	 day	 by	 offering	 great	 quality	
and	 service	 at	 fair	 prices.	 Our	 values	 are	 critical	 to	 achieving	
this.	 Our	 customers	 trust	 Sainsbury’s	 to	 do	 the	 right	 thing	 and	
expect	 us	 to	 maintain	 high	 social,	 ethical	 and	 environmental	
standards	 across	 all	 aspects	 of	 our	 business.	 Our	 values	 are	
part	 of	 what	 make	 us	 different	 from	 other	 supermarkets,	 so	 	
we	 see	 this	 as	 a	 strength,	 as	 well	 as	 a	 responsibility.	 In	 October	
2011,	 we	 published	 our	 20 by 20 Sustainability Plan	 to	 ensure	 	
we	 continue	 to	 lead	 in	 this	 aspect	 of	 business,	 and	 derive	 	
long-term,	 sustainable	 advantage	 from	 it.	
One	 example	 of	 this	 is	 carbon:	 our	 absolute	 electricity	
consumption	 for	 supermarkets	 has	 reduced	 by	 9.1	 per	 cent	 	
over	 the	 past	 four	 years,	 despite	 an	 increase	 in	 space	 of	 	
25	 per	 cent.	 It	 is	 this	 approach	 which	 has	 led	 to	 Sainsbury’s	
being	 rated	 the	 highest	 performer	 relative	 to	 our	 sector	 	
across	 all	 three	 pillars	 of	 environmental,	 social	 and	 governance	
practices	 in	 the	 internationally	 respected	 FTSE4Good	 Index.
Looking forward
As	 we	 look	 to	 the	 year	 ahead,	 we	 do	 so	 with	 the	 benefits	 of	 	
our	 clear	 strategy,	 customer	 insight	 and	 strong	 culture.	 We	 are	
demonstrating	 that	 delivering	 quality	 and	 value	 is	 a	 compelling	
offer	 for	 customers.	 The	 economic	 climate	 is	 likely	 to	 remain	
challenging	 and	 we	 are	 committed	 to	 helping	 customers	 Live 
Well for Less.	 However,	 in	 the	 year	 ahead,	 there	 are	 many	
reasons	 to	 be	 cheerful	 as	 a	 nation.	 We	 know	 our	 customers	 	
trust	 us	 to	 make	 their	 celebrations	 truly	 special	 and	 memorable	
–	 from	 national	 occasions	 like	 the	 Diamond	 Jubilee,	 Olympics	
and	 Paralympics,	 to	 more	 personal	 and	 family	 events.	 	
We	 are	 focused	 on	 ensuring	 that	 we	 continue	 to	 succeed	 for	
our	 customers,	 our	 colleagues	 and,	 of	 course	 for	 you	 our	
shareholders,	 in	 what	 is	 set	 to	 be	 a	 year	 like	 no	 other.
Justin King
Chief	 Executive
Business	 review
