 2  J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Dear Shareholder,
Your Board is pleased to report 
on what has been another good 
year for Sainsbury’s. We have 
outperformed the market, as we 
have done for a number of years, 
by providing great quality, value 
and service, and by remaining 
true to our values and heritage.
We have improved profits while continuing to invest 
significantly in strengthening the business for the 
future. Underlying profit before tax was up 6.2 per 
cent to £756 million. Underlying basic earnings per 
share were up 9.3 per cent to 30.7 pence. This year 
your Board recommends a final dividend of 11.9 
pence per share, making a full year dividend of 16.7 
pence, which is an increase of 3.7 per cent over the 
previous year, and which is covered 1.83 times by 
underlying earnings. Sainsbury’s remains focused 
on delivering returns to shareholders and the Board 
continues to plan to increase the dividend each  
year while building cover to two times over the 
medium term.
Sainsbury’s Bank
The Bank, started in 1997, has delivered five 
consecutive years of profit growth. Its pre-tax  
profit this year was £59 million, half of which  
accrues to Sainsbury’s shareholders. The Bank  
has built customer loyalty by offering good quality,  
value-for-money financial products together  
with attractive rewards and Nectar points. 
We have now reached an agreement with 
Lloyds Banking Group to acquire its 50 per cent 
shareholding and take full ownership of Sainsbury’s 
Bank. We are confident this is a move which will 
benefit customers and shareholders, allowing  
the full future potential of the Bank to be realised. 
We have strengthened the management of the Bank 
and its Board during the course of the last 12 months. 
Peter Griffiths joined as CEO of Sainsbury’s Bank last 
autumn and Roger Davis became Chairman in May 
2013. Each brings wide retail banking experience  
at a senior level to the Bank.
Business review
Chairman’s letter
David T yler, Chairman 3 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
The value of our values
Our unique values and strong culture are at the 
heart of our success, and this remains as true today 
as it was when we were founded 144 years ago.  
Our ambitious 20x20 Sustainability Plan sets out 
our future commitments and is key to the long-term 
sustainability of our business. It is contributing to 
greater efficiency, stronger supplier partnerships, 
deeper customer loyalty and increased colleague 
engagement, all of which ultimately generate and 
enhance shareholder value.
Outlook
The wider economic situation looks likely to remain 
challenging, but we have consistently demonstrated 
we can succeed against this backdrop. Furthermore, 
we see exciting growth opportunities as we bring  
our great food, clothing and general merchandise  
to more customers across multiple channels,  
via our focused space, new technology and new 
business programmes. 
We remain committed to delivering value for 
shareholders and growing profits while making 
investments for the future. The foundations for 
growth are in place and your Board believes this 
positions us well to achieve our vision to be the most 
trusted retailer, where people love to work and shop. 
David Tyler
Chairman
A winning team
I would like to thank all of our 157,000 colleagues 
for their efforts in providing excellent service to our 
customers. Our people are the face of Sainsbury’s 
and are central to our success. We continue to invest 
in their training and development, and in ensuring 
Sainsbury’s is a great place to work. I am delighted 
that they share in a record bonus of over £90 million 
this year, meaning that over the last five years we 
will have awarded over £350 million to colleagues  
in this way.
In December 2012, Anna Ford stood down as a Non-
Executive Director of our plc Board. I would like to 
thank Anna for the contribution she has made since 
her appointment in 2006, both as a valued member 
of the Board and as Chairman of our Corporate 
Responsibility Committee. During her tenure, 
Corporate Responsibility has become an integral 
part of the Group’s business and we have benefited 
tremendously from Anna’s experience and skills.
We appointed Jean Tomlin to the plc Board  
in January 2013. She chairs the Group’s  
Corporate Responsibility Committee and sits on  
the Remuneration and Nomination Committees. 
Jean’s experience and breadth of skills will be a  
great addition to the Board and we welcome her  
to Sainsbury’s.
In addition, we have appointed Lady Susan Rice 
as a Non-Executive Director to the plc Board with 
effect from June 2013. Her extensive retail banking 
experience, mainly at NatWest and Lloyds Banking 
Group, is particularly relevant to us given our 
agreement to acquire full ownership of Sainsbury’s 
Bank, and we also welcome her to Sainsbury’s.
Gwyn Burr, Customer Service and Colleague 
Director, left the Operating Board in March 2013. 
Gwyn played a key role in delivering our business 
turn round and I am delighted that she will 
continue in her role as a Non-Executive Director of 
Sainsbury’s Bank. In January 2013, we welcomed 
Angie Risley on to our Operating Board as Group HR 
Director. Angie was previously Group HR Director at 
Lloyds Banking Group and Whitbread, and brings a 
wealth of experience having worked at Board level  
in a number of large customer-facing companies. 
£90m+
Record bonus awarded  
to colleagues
£756m
Underlying profit  
before tax, up 6.2%
16.7p
Proposed full year 
dividend, up 3.7%
