 4  J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Awards – the fifth time in seven years – as well  
as Convenience Chain of the Year for the third  
year running. 
With 23 million customer transactions a week, an 
increase of over 800,000 on last year, we believe 
our promise to help people Live Well For Less is 
more relevant than ever. Our customers trust us to 
make their lives simpler and easier and to help them 
save time and money. They are confident about the 
quality, provenance and integrity of the products 
they buy from us across all price brackets. 
We have continued to address price perception. 
Brand Match, now in its second year, is reassuring 
customers that they won’t pay more for brands 
at Sainsbury’s than at either Asda or Tesco. We 
are also able to offer meaningful and targeted 
promotions through Nectar – the UK’s largest loyalty 
scheme – and our coupon-at-till technology. Nearly 
12 million Sainsbury’s customers regularly use their 
Nectar loyalty card when they shop with us and 
the programme remains a source of considerable 
competitive advantage.
Great food
Our great food offer, in particular the strength and 
breadth of our own-brand products, is a key driver of 
growth and loyalty. Own-brand is outperforming the 
market as well as many branded equivalents, with 
most customers buying across our ranges – from 
basics to by Sainsbury’s and Taste the Difference. 
The relaunch of our core by Sainsbury’s range, 
which accounts for nearly 40 per cent of sales, is 
now complete, with many products new or improved. 
It has been very well received by our customers 
and is growing ahead of our major competitors’ 
comparable products.
Compelling general  
merchandise & clothing
Sales of general merchandise and clothing continue 
to grow – at more than twice the rate of food over 
the year. We offer customers high street quality and 
style at supermarket prices and this is proving to 
be very successful. We also know that our non-food 
offer builds overall customer loyalty and, with only 
around a third of the population – up from 11 per cent 
five years ago – living within a 15 minute drive of our 
full non-food range, there are plenty of opportunities 
for future growth.
A year like no other
This truly has been a year like no other. The Queen’s 
Diamond Jubilee festivities were not dampened 
by the great British weather, and the endeavours 
of our Olympians and Paralympians uplifted and 
inspired us as a nation. We were enormously proud 
to play our part in both events – as a partner for the 
Queen’s Diamond Jubilee Beacons and Thames River 
Pageant, and by becoming the first-ever Paralympic-
only sponsor of the London 2012 Paralympic Games.
For Sainsbury’s too, it has been a year like no other 
as we helped more customers than ever before to 
Live Well For Less. With 33 consecutive quarters of 
like-for-like sales growth our market share is at its 
highest level for a decade and we are outperforming 
our major competitors. Our clear and proven long-
term strategy continues to drive good sales and 
profit growth. 
Our vision is to be the most trusted retailer, where 
people love to work and shop. Our success rests 
on the 157,000 colleagues working in our stores, 
depots and support centres. It is due to their hard 
work and dedication that we were once again named 
Supermarket of the Year at the Retail Industry 
Business review
Chief Executive’s letter
Dear Shareholder,
We have delivered good sales and 
profit growth, with significant market 
outperformance. We are succeeding 
because we work hard to understand 
what our customers want, and we 
offer them quality and value every day 
through our promise to help people 
Live Well For Less. We will continue  
to invest in creating the best quality 
own-brand products, delivering first-
rate service and bringing our food, 
clothing and general merchandise  
to more customers.
Justin King, Chief Executive 5 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Market share
and organisations to ensure that the next generation 
of Paralympic athletes get the support and coaching 
they need. Building on our support of British 
Athletics’ Paralympic programme, I am delighted 
that we are sponsoring the Sainsbury’s Summer 
Series – three world-class athletics events being 
held this summer in Birmingham and at the Queen 
Elizabeth Olympic Park in London. 
Being a great place to work is an essential part of  
our business plan. This is not only important to us 
but also to our customers – they consistently tell  
us that how we treat our colleagues is their number 
one priority for corporate responsibility. This 
year we have seen our highest levels of colleague 
engagement and commitment and we were 
recognised as the Employer of the Year by  
Retail Week.
In addition, Sainsbury’s was once again rated global 
sector leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index 
and continued to be listed in the FTSE4Good Index.
Looking forward
Looking forward to the year ahead, whilst the 
economic climate is likely to remain challenging, 
we are well positioned to succeed for you, our 
shareholders, through the continued delivery of  
our long-term strategy for growth and by helping  
our customers Live Well For Less.
Justin King
Chief Executive
Complementary channels & services
Our long-standing investment in complementary 
channels and services continues to deliver. The 
amount customers spend more than doubles 
when they shop in our supermarkets, convenience 
stores and online. Sainsbury’s Locals now account 
for nearly a third of the UK’s convenience market 
growth with sales of over £1.5 billion and year-on-
year growth of over 17 per cent. Annual sales in our 
groceries online business are at nearly £1 billion and 
continue to grow at around 20 per cent. 
Sainsbury’s Bank has enjoyed another successful 
year, with our share of joint venture post-tax profit 
up 38 per cent to £22 million and an eight per cent 
increase in active customer accounts over the 
year. We have reached an agreement to take full 
ownership of Sainsbury’s Bank by acquiring Lloyds 
Banking Group’s 50 per cent shareholding for £248 
million, which comprises cash consideration for 
the shares of £193 million and the purchase of £55 
million of loan stock. Developing complementary 
channels and services is a core part of Sainsbury’s 
long-term strategy for growth and our ownership of 
the Bank will enable its full potential to be realised. 
Developing new business
Our targeted programme of new business 
development continues, with Sainsbury’s pharmacies 
now open in over 270 stores and in three hospitals. 
Sainsbury’s Energy has achieved an 83 per cent 
increase in customers over the year and we are 
finding new ways to offer a range of digital products 
and services, from eBooks to Mobile Scan & Go. 
Growing space &  
creating property value
We continue to deliver against our space growth 
plans, with the return to what we consider to be a 
prudent and steady state of growth. This year we 
opened just over one million sq ft of space adding 14 
new supermarkets, 87 convenience stores and eight 
extensions to our estate. Our property portfolio is 
now valued at £11.5 billion and we generated £66 
million of property profit from sale and leaseback 
activity in the year.
Our values make us different
We know that our values make us different from 
other supermarkets, and our customers and 
colleagues expect Sainsbury’s to do the right thing. 
Our 20x20 Sustainability Plan, published in 2011, lays 
out 20 commitments, each linked to one of our five 
core values. The plan provides a clear focus to our 
corporate responsibility programme – from doubling 
the amount of British food we sell, to positive 
commitments on the environment. In November,  
we updated on the progress we have made so  
far and further information is provided in this  
annual report. 
Our values continue to be a source of long-term 
sustainable advantage and great pride. One example 
is our involvement in the London 2012 Paralympic 
Games. From the start we aimed to be much more 
than a sponsor and to play our part in ensuring 
the success of the Games, as well as creating a 
lasting legacy. Our legacy programme has already 
contributed £2 million of funding for schools, clubs 
16.8%
Sainsbury’s
Morrisons
Tesco
Asda
Other
Waitrose
Aldi
Lidl
Co-op
Source: Kantar Worldpanel total till roll for the 52 weeks to 17 March 2013
