 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 4
Strategic Report
Chief Executive’s letter
Dear Shareholder,
In the context of a rapidly changing 
marketplace we have delivered 
good profit growth, outperforming 
our ‘Big Four’
1
 peers and growing 
sales in line with the market. Our 
market share remains at its highest 
for a decade. We are focused on 
delivering high quality, affordable 
products across all our channels, 
helping our customers Live Well for 
Less. Our long-term strategy 
positions us well to continue to 
deliver for customers, colleagues 
and shareholders. 
Consumer confidence has been slowly 
improving over the last 12 months, but 
budgets remain under pressure. The trend 
for ‘savvy shopping’ is now well entrenched, 
with customers shopping little and often, 
mixing visits to supermarkets, convenience 
and discount stores with online purchases.
This is changing the grocery retail landscape, 
with market growth overall being delivered in 
the discount, convenience and online 
channels. The share of market held by core 
grocery supermarkets has declined markedly 
in the last 12 months. 
Our customers care about where their 
shopping comes from and how it is 
produced. They trust us to make the right 
decisions on their behalf across all our 
ranges, from basics through to Taste the 
Difference. We believe this gives us a clear, 
long-term, strategic advantage and we are 
proud, for example, that we are the largest 
retailer of Fairtrade products in the world, 
that all our eggs are from non-caged hens 
and that we have been the largest retailer 
of Marine Stewardship Council sustainable 
seafood for the past four years. 
Our vision is to be the most trusted retailer 
where people love to work and shop, and 
this year we recorded around 24 million 
customer transactions per week, an increase 
of one million since last year. We have 
161,000 colleagues working in our stores, 
depots and store support centres and it is 
down to their hard work and commitment 
that our service standards remain 
consistently high, a fact recognised in 
key industry awards. 
About 12 million people regularly use their 
Nectar card when they shop with us. 
Together with coupon-at-till technology, this 
gives us significant competitive advantage 
and allows us to provide our customers truly 
targeted offers which reflect what they buy 
and incentivises multi-channel shopping. In 
addition, Brand Match, now in its third year, 
continues to reinforce the competitiveness of 
our price position.
Despite the broader economic challenges 
and growing competition, we were the only 
‘Big Four’ supermarket to maintain market 
share this year – at 16.8 per cent
2
. Our 
own-brand food and general merchandise 
ranges, with their focus on quality, value and 
provenance, are growing market share. Our 
supermarkets and our key growth channels 
of convenience and online allow customers 
to shop with us whenever and however they 
want. As a business we are focused on 
investing to ensure that Sainsbury’s 
continues to bring customers an attractive 
differentiated offer, underpinned by our 
quality, service and values.
Justin King, Chief Executive J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 5
Great food
We have invested in our own-brand ranges 
which are growing at over twice the rate of 
branded lines and account for over half our 
food sales. From basics through to Taste the 
Difference, our values and the integrity of our 
products are the same across all our ranges. 
We have long supported British farming and 
this year we achieved 100 per cent British 
sourcing for all our fresh pork, breaded and 
roast chicken, frozen chicken and chicken 
portions. Our popular fresh and hot food 
counters are now in more than 500 stores 
and to date, more than 29,000 colleagues 
have received City & Guilds-accredited 
training through our seven Food Colleges. 
Compelling general merchandise 
and clothing
We offer a winning formula of high street 
style and quality at supermarket prices. 
Non-food sales are growing at over twice the 
rate of food and we are increasing market 
share in key categories. Our non-food ranges 
are on sale in over 400 stores and 34 per cent 
of our customers can now access, within a 
15 minute drive, the full non-food offer, 
compared to 11 per cent six years ago. 
However, with only one in five of our 
supermarkets offering the full range, we still 
have opportunities for growth in this area. 
Currently in 53 stores, our new ‘department 
store’ layout has proved to be popular with 
our customers and this concept will be in 
over 150 stores by the end of next year.
Complementary channels and 
services
Developing channels and services 
complementary to our existing supermarket 
business is key to our long-term strategy for 
growth. Ensuring people can shop whenever 
and however they want is a strong driver of 
loyalty – average spend more than doubles
3
 
when customers shop in our supermarkets, 
convenience stores and online. We now have 
more convenience stores than supermarkets 
in our store estate, and convenience sales 
have grown at around 19 per cent. This year, 
we opened our first Convenience Training 
College in Brixton, London, which will provide 
training courses to colleagues and support 
our growth in the convenience market. 
Groceries Online reached the significant 
milestone of £1 billion in annual sales this 
year, representing growth of over 12 per cent. 
In January, we acquired the remaining 50 
per cent of Sainsbury’s Bank from Lloyds 
Banking Group. The Bank is now a wholly-
owned subsidiary and we expect it to 
become an increasingly important part of 
the value that customers receive from 
Sainsbury’s, further driving customer loyalty. 
Developing new business
Identifying new areas of growth beyond our 
core is also part of our long-term strategy, 
although growth in this area has been slower 
than we would have liked. We are continuing 
to develop our digital entertainment offer 
enabling customers to enjoy their favourite 
ebooks, films and music when, where and 
how they want. Our pharmacy business 
continues to develop through in-store and 
hospital outpatient pharmacies. 
Growing space and property value
We are delivering space growth in line with 
our plans and have increased our estate by 
1 million sq ft, opening 13 supermarkets, six 
extensions and 91 convenience stores during 
the year. We are leveraging our property 
assets working with joint venture partners to 
deliver residential, commercial and leisure 
opportunities alongside new trading space. 
Following a review of our property pipeline 
earlier this year, we identified some sites 
where we no longer wish to build a 
supermarket, resulting in a £92 million 
impairment. Nonetheless we continue to see 
opportunities for future growth. Our property 
portfolio is valued at £12.0 billion whilst sale 
and leaseback activity during the year 
generated profits of £52 million. 
Our values make us different
Our values are part of our 145-year heritage, 
differentiating us from other retailers and 
providing a real competitive advantage. We 
have continued to make progress against our 
20x20 Sustainability Plan across each of our 
five values. I am particularly proud that 
Sainsbury’s is recognised as a great place to 
work – through the development, support 
and the motivation of our colleagues we 
were again awarded Investors in People Gold 
Accreditation, the only supermarket to 
receive this accolade. 
Handing over to Mike Coupe
After ten wonderful years at Sainsbury’s, 
I will leave the business at our AGM in July 
and will hand over to Mike Coupe, our Group 
Commercial Director. Mike played an 
instrumental role in our ‘Making Sainsbury’s 
Great Again’ plan and is ideally equipped to 
lead Sainsbury’s as the Company continues to 
develop and grow in tune with the changing 
consumer and industry environment. 
It has been a privilege to lead the Company 
over the last ten years. I am very proud of 
the team and of what we have achieved 
together. It is the 161,000 colleagues that 
make Sainsbury’s so special and I would like 
to thank them for their amazing efforts over 
the last decade.
Justin King
Chief Executive
Market share
Morrisons
Tesco
Asda
Other
Waitrose Aldi
Lidl
Co-op
Source: Kantar Worldpanel total till roll for the 52 weeks to 2 March 2014
16.8%
Sainsbury’s
1   Big Four peers refers to Tesco, Morrisons and Asda
2  Kantar – 52 weeks to 2 March 2014
3  Versus spend when customers only shop in our supermarkets
