 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 2
Strategic Report
Chairman’s letter
Dear Shareholder
Your Board is pleased to report on 
another year of improving profits, our 
ninth successive year of underlying profit 
growth. By offering our customers an 
attractive combination of quality, value 
and service, underpinned by our strong 
values, we have continued to outperform 
our ‘Big Four’
1
 peers in a challenging 
market. As a result, our market share 
remains at its highest level for a decade. 
David Tyler, Chairman
Underlying profit before tax was up 5.3 per 
cent to £798 million. Underlying basic 
earnings per share rose 6.5 per cent to 32.8 
pence. Return on capital employed (‘ROCE’) 
increased by 19 basis points year-on-year to 
11.3 per cent
2
. 
This year, your Board recommends a final 
dividend of 12.3 pence per share, bringing 
the full year dividend to 17.3 pence, an 
increase of 3.6 per cent over the previous 
year, and covered 1.90 times by underlying 
earnings. 
The food retail sector remains under 
pressure, with the growth of the discounters 
and increasingly competitive pricing posing 
significant challenges. We continue to meet 
these challenges by investing in price, quality 
and service, and this, underpinned by our 
values, will ensure that Sainsbury’s 
continues to provide a strong, differentiated 
offer to customers. 
A winning team
Our continuing success is due to the 161,000 
colleagues who work in our stores, depots 
and store support centres. Their hard work 
and commitment is a key factor in the 
success of our business and it is thanks to 
them that we were named Supermarket of 
the Year for the sixth time in eight years
3
, 
Convenience Retailer of the Year for the 
fourth year running
3
 and Online Retailer of 
the Year for the second consecutive year
4
.  
We want Sainsbury’s to be a place where 
people love to work and shop and we invest 
in developing our colleagues and in ensuring 
they share in the success of our Company. 
I am delighted that a bonus of over £80 
million will be shared by colleagues this year. J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 3
Grocery who has been appointed Food 
Commercial Director; and Jon Rudoe our 
former Director of Online who has become 
Digital and Technology Director. These 
changes follow the previously announced 
departures of Rob Fraser our former IT 
Director, Luke Jensen our Business 
Development Director and Neil Sachdev our 
Property Director who all stepped down 
earlier in the year. The Board thanks Rob, 
Luke and Neil for the significant 
contributions they made to Sainsbury’s and 
we wish them the very best for the future.
Sainsbury’s Bank
In January, we acquired the remaining 50 
per cent shareholding in Sainsbury’s Bank plc 
from Lloyds Banking Group. The opportunity 
to offer accessible, tailored products that 
reward customers who both bank and shop 
with Sainsbury’s will help boost customer 
numbers and loyalty across all our channels 
and services. 
We announced in January that Justin King 
will step down in July after ten years as Chief 
Executive. His ‘Making Sainsbury’s Great 
Again’ plan transformed our business and 
has seen Sainsbury’s consistently 
outperform the growth of the market. Under 
his leadership, customer transactions have 
increased by ten million a week to around 24 
million, annual sales have grown by £10.3 
billion to £26.4 billion and underlying profit 
before tax has trebled to £798 million. He has 
been a truly exceptional leader and, on 
behalf of your Board and all our colleagues,  
I thank him for his outstanding achievements.
I am delighted that Mike Coupe will lead 
Sainsbury’s on the next phase of its journey. 
Mike is a man of significant experience and a 
proven track record of success, well respected 
by colleagues and within the wider industry. 
No one knows Sainsbury’s – or retail – better 
than he does and he is the natural choice to 
take our Company forward.
A key part of our success is the strength of 
our leadership team, and our focus on 
developing talent from within, ensuring we 
have a great blend of innovative thinking and 
experience. We have made some important 
changes to our Operating Board in the last 
few months. Roger Burnley moved from 
being Managing Director of General 
Merchandise, Clothing and Logistics to 
become Retail and Operations Director, while 
Helen Buck transferred from her role as Retail 
Director to become Business Development 
Director. We are also very pleased to have 
promoted three new people to the Operating 
Board: Peter Griffiths the CEO of Sainsbury’s 
Bank; Paul Mills-Hicks our former Director for 
Outlook
Despite some signs of economic recovery, 
the food retail sector is likely to remain 
challenging for the foreseeable future. 
Customers continue to manage their 
household budgets cautiously and the 
discounters continue to grow market share. 
However, we have consistently performed 
well against this backdrop, and continue to 
see opportunities for growth across multiple 
channels. Our differentiated customer offer 
means we are well positioned to achieve our 
vision to be the most trusted retailer, where 
people love to work and shop.
David Tyler
Chairman
£80m+
bonus awarded to  
colleagues
£798m
underlying profit  
before tax, up 5.3%
17 .3p
proposed full year  
dividend, up 3.6%
1   Big Four peers refers to Tesco, Morrisons and Asda
2 Return on capital employed: Underlying profit before interest 
and tax, divided by the average of opening and closing capital 
employed (net assets before net debt). 2013/14 closing capital 
employed has been reduced by 50 per cent of Sainsbury’s Bank 
closing net assets (£243 million) to reflect the fact that the 
Bank was only consolidated in the accounts for four weeks 
of the 2013/14 financial year
3  Retail Industry Awards
4  Grocer Gold Awards
