 2
Charles Rice, Chairman
James Fisher and Sons plc
Chairman’s statement
Group revenue up by 14%  
to £413.7m and underlying  
profit before tax up 18%  
to £41.4m
Group results and dividend
James Fisher and Sons plc made significant progress 
in 2013 with Group revenue up by 14% to £413.7m 
and underlying profit before tax up 18% to £41.4m. 
Underlying diluted earnings per share was 65.6 pence, 
an increase of 19% over 2012.
All four of the Group’s operating divisions contributed to 
the strong pattern of growth underpinning these results. 
Marine Support achieved further expansion of its ship to 
ship transfer and mooring operations while making good 
progress with the development of its support contracts 
and diving businesses. Offshore Oil did particularly well, 
benefitting from favourable market conditions in the North 
Sea as well as making significant progress in the new deep 
sea markets off Brazil and Africa. Specialist Technical’s 
excellent result reflected the first-time contribution from 
Divex Limited (Divex), a leading equipment supplier to the 
saturation diving market which was acquired in March and 
performed ahead of expectations. Our Nuclear business 
within Specialist Technical also did well, broadening its 
customer base significantly while producing another good 
result. Tankships improved its earnings further by careful 
attention to costs and by managing capacity to reflect the 
level of contract demand.
The strength of the Group’s trading performance in 2013 and 
the continued positive outlook has led the Board to propose 
a 15% increase in the final dividend to 13.54 pence per share 
which together with the 6.46 pence interim will bring the total 
dividend for the year to 20.0 pence per share (2012: 17 .7p).  
Strategic developments
The Group continues to benefit from its consistent 
strategy of investing in niche businesses which operate in 
demanding environments where their strong marine service 
and specialist engineering skills are valued and rewarded. 
The majority of the Group’s activities are therefore 
focused on the offshore oil, gas and renewables sectors 
together with an increasing presence in the nuclear 
decommissioning and condition monitoring businesses. 
Working with their strong multi-national client base, these 
businesses have expanded their international footprint 
significantly in recent years and have benefited from 
the strong growth seen in the new markets offshore of 
Africa, Brazil and the Far East. 
In March, the Group acquired Divex for an initial 
consideration of £20.8m. This Aberdeen based 
company is a leader in the saturation diving equipment 
market, servicing both the commercial and defence 
sectors in a strongly international setting. Its expertise, 
customers and operational bases fit well with our JF 
Defence submarine rescue business. Together, they will 
form a strong specialist subsea business with combined 
operations in the UK, Far East and Australia and a 
broader spread of customers which will help even out 
the peaks and troughs that have affected our Defence 
business in recent years.
In July, we announced the disposal of our 25% interest in 
Foreland Shipping for an initial consideration of £1 1.4m in 
cash with potential additional consideration in the event 
of the sale of certain assets. This Private Finance Roll-on 
Roll-off support ship contract to the Ministry of Defence 
had reduced in scale following the Defence Review. The 
Board therefore decided that it was better to release the 
capital tied up in this business for reinvestment into faster 
growing areas of the Group. An example of this was the 
acquisition in August of Osiris Marine for £3.3m, a diving 
services company which enhanced the Group’s offering 
to the offshore renewables sector.
The combination of strong cash conversion from the 
Group’s trading activities together with the sale of our 
Foreland interest led to a further reduction in year-end  3
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
James Fisher and Sons plc
gearing to 30%. The strength of our balance sheet 
means that the Group is well placed to take advantage 
of further organic growth and acquisition opportunities in 
the year ahead.
The Board
At our last AGM we announced that Maurice 
Storey would retire from his role as Senior Non-
Executive Director during 2013. In his ten years on 
the Board, Maurice made a significant contribution 
to the development of the Group and brought deep 
technical and maritime expertise. Malcolm Paul was 
appointed Senior Non-Executive Director on 31 
December 2013. In August, I was delighted to be able 
to announce the appointment of David Moorhouse 
(formerly Executive Chairman of Lloyds Register) 
and of Michael Salter (formerly Chief Operating 
Officer of Abbot Group plc) as new Non-Executive 
Directors. Between them they strengthen the Board’s 
insight into the oil and gas sectors and provide a 
full replacement of Maurice Storey’s technical and 
maritime knowledge. 
Having ensured a period of hand-over, Michael 
Everard has also decided to retire from the Board at 
the end of April.  Michael has served on the Board for 
over seven years and helped shape the integration 
of FT Everard into the Group following its acquisition 
in 2006. I would like to thank Maurice and Michael 
for the great contribution that they have made to the 
Group’s development over the last years.
Staff
The success of James Fisher remains linked to our 
ability to retain and develop the entrepreneurial drive 
and professionalism of the staff and management 
teams in our operating companies. As the Group 
expands overseas these businesses become 
increasingly complex. A number of sectors are marked 
by shortages of skilled engineering staff. As a Group 
wide initiative we are therefore paying increased 
attention to our in-house training and to our graduate 
and management development programmes. This 
investment comes at a cost but will enable us both to 
continue growing and to manage increased complexity 
as we go forward.
Our success depends more than ever on the dedication 
and professionalism of our staff. On behalf of the Board, 
I would like to thank all our staff for the tremendous 
commitment shown throughout all our businesses over 
the last year.
Outlook
The increased scale of the Group and its enhanced 
international presence has reinforced the Group’s 
market position in the demanding environments of the 
offshore, marine and nuclear sectors. This gives us 
confidence that our operating companies will continue 
their recent pattern of growth across a broad front. In 
particular, demand for our services remains strong in 
our Offshore Oil division while our Specialist Technical 
subsea and nuclear businesses have a healthy order 
book in a growing market. All divisions will benefit from 
the strength of our balance sheet which will enable us 
to invest further in organic growth opportunities and to 
continue with our programme of targeted acquisitions. 
Trading to date in 2014 has been to management 
expectations and we continue to be well placed to 
provide further growth and value for our shareholders.
Charles Rice
3 March 2014
Saturation Diving System
In October 2013 Divex completed the design, 
manufacture and supply of a 450 metre rated  
saturation diving system. The system, worth in 
excess of £10m, is to be installed onto a Navy 
rescue ship in 2014.
The system is a unique design that 
accommodates 12 divers in saturation, allowing 
three-man bell excursions to depths of 450 
metres to gain access to stricken submarines.
The chamber complex can also accommodate up 
to 60 submariners in the event that they require 
decompression following rescue.
