 Amersham plc 23
Chairman’s statement
Amersham delivered a solid financial performance in 2002,
with good sales growth and double-digit growth in earnings per
share. Turnover reached £1,618 million, up seven per cent over
2001 at constant exchange rates. Earnings per share before
exceptional items and goodwill amortisation were 29.9 pence,
a growth of 15 per cent at constant exchange rates. The Board
is recommending a final dividend of 5.15 pence per share,
giving a full year dividend of 7.8 pence per share, a growth 
of 10 per cent.
In a year of challenging economic and market conditions, the
breadth and balance of our global businesses continued to be 
a strong asset. In Amersham Biosciences, our protein separations
business area grew sales by 15 per cent, and we achieved good
sales of reagents in all areas of the life science market. This
helped offset a slowdown in instrument sales in discovery
systems, due primarily to reductions in capital spending in the US
market. Similarly, in Amersham Health our portfolio of patented
medical diagnostic products grew sales by 22 per cent, more 
than offsetting lower bulk sales into Japan. Overall, sales in North
America, our largest market, were up by eight per cent to 
£799 million, sales in Europe rose eight per cent to £428 million,
and sales in Japan were up by one per cent at £264 million.
In March, we achieved a key strategic objective. Completing the
merger process which began in 1997, we purchased Pharmacia
Corp’s 45 per cent stake in Amersham Biosciences to take
full ownership of our life sciences business. The purchase was
partially financed through the issue of 57.5 million new shares,
raising £397 million towards the purchase price of £704 million,
with the remainder being drawn from existing bank facilities
and cash reserves. Having full ownership of Amersham
Biosciences and Amersham Health opens new and exciting
opportunities, particularly in research and development, for
incorporating genetic knowledge into diagnostics – taking 
us a big step further towards our long-term vision of enabling
personalised medicine.
2002 also saw heightened awareness of corporate governance
issues for companies following revelations of corporate
mismanagement and accounting fraud, primarily in the US.
This has served to focus attention on the role of independent
Non-Executive Directors in protecting the interests of
shareholders. It has also resulted in new legislation (Sarbanes-
Oxley Act) in the US, and a series of recommendations 
(the Higgs Review) which may be adopted during 2003 in the
UK. Amersham’s Board is committed to high standards of
corporate governance and we believe our current practices
demonstrate this. We have always believed that using the Board
to manage the company, exposing it to issues and a wider cross
section of our managers provides an indispensable framework
of business understanding, without which our corporate
governance risks being a theoretical and unsubstantial activity.
In this Annual Report, we have supplemented our disclosure
and control procedures as required by the US legislation; and
we shall review the proposed UK recommendations to ensure
that our company continues to follow best practices.
We were extremely pleased to welcome a new Non-Executive
Director to the Board this year. Professor Mathias Uhlén,
Professor of Biotechnology at the Royal Institute of Technology
in Stockholm, Sweden and an internationally recognised expert
in proteomics, is a strong addition. Andrew Carr, President of
Amersham Biosciences, and Peter Loescher, who has recently
joined the company as President of Amersham Health, are 
new Executive Directors on the Board. We also wish to thank 
Dr John Padfield for his valuable contributions to the company.
John retired from the Board and as the Chief Executive of
Amersham Health in December, having delivered strong sales
growth in Amersham Health during his three years with our
company. John is now pursuing a portfolio of other
opportunities and we wish him every success in the next 
stage of his career.
I shall retire from the Amersham Board at the Annual General
Meeting in May 2003, having served as a Non-Executive
Director for 14 years including four years as Chairman.
Amersham has undergone an amazing transformation during
my tenure, evolving from a small spin-off of the UK Atomic
Energy Authority into a global leader in medical diagnostics
and life sciences, achieved through a consistent application 
of strategy and two transformational mergers in 1997 with
Nycomed and Pharmacia Biotech. We are now a driving force
in medical innovation. Being a Director of this company, and
playing a role in its development, has been a source of intense
pleasure and pride.
On behalf of the Board, I want to express my sincere
admiration and appreciation to all Amersham employees.
Their dedication and talents have built a great company. I now
pass the Chairman’s baton to Donald Brydon, a Non-Executive
Director since 1997 and currently Chairman of the Audit
Committee. Donald has had an illustrious career in investment
management – 32 years and counting! – and he is eminently
qualified to guide Amersham on the next stage of its
development. My very best wishes to Donald, the Board and
management, and to a great team of employees.
Richard Lapthorne Chairman
