 24 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Chief Executive’s review 
2002 was a watershed year for Amersham. We achieved our
goal of becoming one company focused on enabling molecular
medicine. The process of transformation began in 1997, when
we merged Amersham’s businesses with Nycomed, now
Amersham Health, and Pharmacia Biotech, now Amersham
Biosciences. This gave us the global franchise and breadth of
skills in medical diagnostics and life sciences that are critical 
for delivering our strategy in molecular medicine – skills that
we have since built on and strengthened in two fully-fledged,
profitable businesses. Our purchase of the remaining equity in
Amersham Biosciences in March 2002 completed the merger
process. We now have full ownership of our three main
business areas in medical diagnostics, protein separations and
discovery systems. This enables us to draw on the total skills
base in molecular medicine across the company to drive
towards our long-term vision of enabling personalised medicine.
Our newly formed Portfolio Committee plays an important 
role in enabling innovation across the company. Composed 
of colleagues at the most senior level in the company as well
as distinguished external scientists, the Portfolio Committee
oversees the direction of science in Amersham and approves
the investment in research, ensuring that we stay on track 
both commercially and strategically as we go forward.
Amersham’s business maintained the good momentum 
we have seen in previous years. Our turnover, at constant
exchange rates, grew seven per cent, with sales in Amersham
Health up by eight per cent to £948 million and Amersham
Biosciences sales up six per cent to £670 million. Trading profit
increased by seven per cent to £494 million. After an
investment in R&D of £184 million, corresponding to
approximately 11 per cent of total sales, we had an operating
profit, before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, of
£310 million, up seven per cent at constant exchange rates.
We continue to drive our businesses for profits and cash, and
we saw strong performance in 2002 in medical diagnostics,
with over 20 per cent growth in sales of our patented
diagnostic products, and in protein separations, driven by
excellent growth in bioprocess systems for the manufacture of
biopharmaceuticals. Each of these business areas has a global
market share of 35 to 40 per cent
1
in growing markets, and
they consistently deliver good sales and profits.
Our discovery systems business area is fundamental to our
focus on molecular medicine, as it develops the innovative
technologies that will feed future advances in life sciences 
1
Company estimates
Sir William Castell
Chief Executive Amersham plc 25
and medical diagnostics. We intend for this business area to
contribute to profits as well as innovation. In 2002, discovery
systems’ financial performance did not improve as rapidly as
we would like, due to market developments in the life science
market, and a restructuring programme has been put in place
to accelerate its move into profitability during 2004. The R&D
portfolio will be refocused on a smaller number of high-value
products and systems and we will drive cost efficiencies by
reducing the number of employees and consolidating activities
on fewer sites. Amersham will incur one-off costs in the range of
£45-50 million, which are expected to result in savings running
at the rate of £30-35 million per annum by the end of 2004.
We continue to invest in our businesses to expand capacity
and support growth. In medical diagnostics, we expanded
manufacturing capacity at several sites in 2002, increasing
manufacturing efficiencies and enabling us to meet the growing
demand for our diagnostic products. A new £47 million
expansion of the Lindesnes (Norway) contrast media plant has
been approved, to be completed in 2005. Protein separations
also benefited from capacity expansion in 2002 and further
investments are planned in 2003. Acquisitions in Amersham
Biosciences during the year included a controlling stake in
Cimarron in informatics, two filtration companies which added
membrane separation to our bioprocess product offering in
protein separations, and the CodeLink™ pre-arrayed slides
business, which in addition to its use in gene expression has
significant further potential for leverage into proteomics 
and diagnostics.
Amersham Health is a global leader in medical diagnostics 
and our four leading brands – Omnipaque™, Visipaque™,
Omniscan™ and Myoview™ – account for 65 per cent of sales.
Our patented portfolio of medical diagnostic products grew
sales by 22 per cent in 2002, surpassing sales of our
unpatented products, for the first time, in the second half of
the year. Amersham Health’s operating profit was up nine per
cent to £256 million, growing at a faster rate than sales, and
operating margins improved over those of 2001, driven by
product mix and manufacturing efficiencies.
New studies are supporting or extending the clinical usefulness
of our top three patented medical diagnostic products. In
cardiac angiography, Visipaque has been shown to have a
significantly improved renal safety profile compared to other
X-ray products. Our heart diagnostic, Myoview, is now
approved for use in breast tumour imaging, and our magnetic
resonance agent, Omniscan, is being developed for the
diagnosis of cardiovascular disease. In addition to life cycle
projects, Amersham Health has implemented changes in its
R&D organisation to improve productivity and significantly
reduce the time to market for projects in the pipeline. This has
also involved reallocating resources to projects with the
greatest commercial opportunities.
Our research in medical diagnostics is focused on the
development of molecular diagnostics, targeted towards major
diseases such as cancer, Alzheimer’s disease and heart disease.
These new molecular diagnostics will improve the way
medicine is delivered in the future and our company is among
the leaders, working not only in our own research laboratories
but also, through our Imanet™ network of imaging research
centres, in collaboration with pharmaceutical companies such
as Pfizer. Eventually, as we learn more about genetic variation,
we will have diagnostics that can identify individuals at high
risk for development of particular diseases or side-effects of
given drugs. Further we can monitor the expression of genes
and proteins within cells. Together this will allow physicians 
to segment patient populations according to their genetic
makeup, leading to tailored prevention and therapies.
Our protein separations business area grew sales by 15 per cent
in 2002, accelerating throughout the year as new production
plants for manufacturing biopharmaceuticals were brought on
stream and new drugs entered clinical trials. There are over 
100 biopharmaceuticals on the market and our bioprocess
instruments and media are used in the manufacture of over 
90 per cent of these products. In addition, two new areas
contributed to the progress, the rapid growth in development
of DNA medicines and sales of our membrane separation
systems. The operating profit was £107 million, up from
£96 million in 2001. To increase the visibility of this business
area, Peter Ehrenheim, President of protein separations, now
reports directly to me.
In discovery systems, we have an excellent technology base 
in genomics, proteomics and bioassays, backed by a growing
informatics capability. Genomics moved into profit in 2002,
benefiting from restructuring steps taken at the beginning of
2002 and the Applera litigation settlement. Discovery systems
experienced a significant decline in instrument sales as a result
of reduced capital spending by pharmaceutical companies.
Overall, although sales of reagents, consumables and software
remained good, sales in discovery systems were down one per
cent and this business area had an operating loss of £32 million.
Andrew Carr, President of Amersham Biosciences, is focusing 
on discovery systems and this will strengthen performance
management as it moves towards profitability.
In December 2002, Peter Loescher joined the company as
President of Amersham Health. Peter, most recently head of
Aventis’ business in Japan and with many years of experience 
in the international pharmaceutical industry, brings additional
strength and diversity to our executive management team.
He is also an Executive Director on the Board and a member 
of our Portfolio Committee.
2002 marked the 20th anniversary of Amersham’s privatisation,
and it is illuminating to consider just how dramatically our
world has changed since 1982. Twenty years ago, Amersham
had a turnover of £63 million from its core business in
radioactive products. Today, our turnover exceeds £1.6 billion
and we are world leaders in medical diagnostics and in life
sciences. We played a part in the sequencing of the human
genome – a monumental scientific achievement, science fiction
20 years ago. In 1982, there were no biopharmaceutical drugs.
No one imagined being able to screen 1,000,000 potential drug
compounds a day. Formal confirmation of Parkinson’s disease
was only possible at post-mortem, there was no molecular
diagnostic to aid in diagnosis. Our innovation has enabled
these advances in healthcare and many more.
Innovation, combined with focused management attention 
on the commercial opportunities in our global marketplace,
has enabled us to make good progress in 2002, as the following
detailed review of our business shows. 26Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Amersham Health
Amersham Health is a market-leading, global business
specialising in the field of in vivo diagnostic products for the
early and accurate detection of disease. Today our products 
are primarily used to aid in the diagnosis of anatomical and
functional abnormalities of soft tissue within the body.
Increasingly, however, Amersham is developing products that
detect changes in cells at the molecular level. Such changes
usually occur well before symptoms or functional changes
become apparent.
We focus on the management of heart disease, circulatory
disease and stroke; degeneration of the brain such as is seen 
in Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease; lung disease 
and a range of cancers. In addition, we are a major provider 
of therapy products to treat prostate and thyroid cancer.
As the cost of healthcare continues to rise and populations age,
governments and healthcare providers increasingly recognise
the value of investment in early and accurate diagnosis, in
order to most effectively manage therapeutic intervention and
its associated costs. This, together with increased capability and
numbers of scanning machines, greater incidence of disease
and improved medical practices (which rely on the
identification of the underlying cause of disease), continues 
to drive growth and demand for our products.
In 2002, turnover increased by eight per cent to £948 million,
driven by sales of our portfolio of patented diagnostic products,
up 22 per cent to £354 million. In the second half of the year,
sales of patented diagnostics surpassed those of our unpatented
products for the first time, even though sales of our unpatented
diagnostic products also grew by five per cent in 2002.
Trading profit increased 10 per cent to £351 million, driven 
by growth in higher margin products and manufacturing
efficiencies. Our total spend on researching new molecules,
developing new products and extending established products
into new indications rose 14 per cent to £95 million. After R&D
expenses, our operating profit was £256 million, up nine per
cent. Excluding profits from the sale of the TARC research
facility in 2001, operating profit grew 11 per cent. The
operating margin of 26.9 per cent was slightly higher than 
the 26.1 per cent achieved in 2001.
Excluding Japan, total sales of medical diagnostic products were
good in all regions, growing by £60 million to £723 million.
In Japan, despite a modest volume increase, sales fell six per
cent following a reduction in in-market prices as a result of the
Japanese government’s biennial pharmaceutical price review. This
affected bulk sales of iohexol (the raw material for Omnipaque™
X-ray diagnostic) into Japan, which were down 13 per cent.
In X-ray diagnostics, sales were £335 million, up eight per cent.
Sales in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) totalled £97 million,
up 17 per cent. The radiopharmaceutical diagnostic business
grew 14 per cent to £269 million.
Therapy sales were down by £9 million to £62 million in 2002,
impacted by continuing price pressure in the US market for
brachytherapy seed implants for prostate cancer treatment.
However, sales in Europe continued to grow strongly through
the opening of new centres using our patented stranded seed
product, Rapid Strand™.
Production
We achieved further significant milestones in bringing more 
of our production in house, which improves process control 
as well as manufacturing cost efficiency.
In September, we opened the extension to our secondary
manufacturing facility in Cork, Ireland and the first shipment 
of Omnipaque™ and Omniscan™ products into the US started
the same month. A major upgrade for the production of our
leading radiopharmaceutical, Myoview™, was successfully
completed at Gloucester, UK at mid-year and we also received
FDA approval to supplement Myoview production at our Oslo,
Norway facility in May.
In primary manufacturing, the investment in bulk iohexol
capacity completed in 2001 at Lindesnes, Norway showed
major volume benefits with record yields achieved by the end
of the year. A major £47 million project at Lindesnes to source
increased volumes of a significant intermediate for contrast
media production in-house was approved in June and will,
when completed, help to deliver further unit cost reductions.
In North America, we added five new radiopharmacies to our
radiopharmacy distribution network, bringing the number of
Amersham owned pharmacies to 30 and the total to 187,
giving us excellent customer reach and coverage.
Portfolio development 
Our four largest products – Omnipaque™ and Visipaque™ 
in X-ray, Omniscan™ in MRI and Myoview™ in
radiopharmaceutical imaging – are used in a number of disease
areas. Life cycle management of these products is key, and we
continue to extend their usefulness through new indications
and innovative packaging and presentations.
Significant progress was made during the year in refocusing our
R&D efforts towards molecular diagnostics, and we now have 
a higher number of projects for molecular diagnosis of human
pathology in development than at any time in the past. We are
Peter Loescher
President, Amersham Health Amersham plc 27
concentrating on products that can aid the detection and gauge
the effectiveness of ongoing treatment in our four areas of
focus: cardiology, neurology, oncology and pulmonology.
Cardiology
Cardiovascular disease continues to be one of the most rapidly
expanding disease areas globally and a major cause of death in
North America and Europe. Amersham offers a broad range of
products across the range of modalities to enable physicians 
to understand the health of a patient’s heart.
Myoview is our leading radiopharmaceutical diagnostic for
visualising the supply of blood to the heart, with sales of
£133 million in 2002, up 26 per cent. In 2001, this product was
approved for use with pharmacological stress agents. In 2002
we completed a phase III trial with Myoview for a new cardiac
indication, left ventricular function, and the file has been
submitted to the US regulatory authorities.
The safety profile of our third generation X-ray diagnostic,
Visipaque, was further strengthened through a landmark study
carried out by the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm, Sweden in
2002 and published in the prestigious New England Journal of
Medicine in February 2003. The NEPHRIC study showed that
Visipaque significantly reduces the relative risk of developing
contrast media-induced impairment of renal function, a serious
clinical problem in some patient groups. Sales of Visipaque
grew 18 per cent to £91 million in 2002. The X-ray diagnostic
Omnipaque, which remains the world’s best selling in vivo
diagnostic product after 20 years in the market, reached sales
of £222 million, up six per cent.
We successfully completed phase II trials to extend the use 
of our MRI product Omniscan in cardiac perfusion and for
monitoring blood flow through the renal arteries. Phase III
studies in the US and Europe are being planned and should
commence towards the end of 2003.
In the US and Europe, myocardial perfusion has been the
primary target market for the development of Sonazoid™,
a third generation ultrasound product. The use of ultrasound 
for this indication has been limited by the slow development 
of sufficiently robust imaging procedures. Therefore, although
Sonazoid has shown excellent safety data, a decision has been
taken to suspend work in the US and Europe and to continue
to focus on Optison™, our ultrasound product which is marketed
for improved visualisation of the surfaces of the heart muscle.
In Japan, the development of Sonazoid by our partner, Daiichi
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., continues. The first use of Sonazoid
imaging in Japan will be established in the liver disease market.
In its first full year under Amersham’s ownership, Optison
achieved excellent results with sales of £9 million in the new,
yet emerging, ultrasound contrast media market. In North
America, we have built a specialised sales force for developing
this new market through focused education and by working
with key opinion leaders. EU marketing authorisation for
Optison was granted in June.
Neurology
Omniscan, our leading MRI product, is used in neurology to
detect stroke, brain tumours and other brain abnormalities.
Omniscan continues to be a market leader in this area and 
is the number one non-ionic MRI contrast medium sold
throughout the world, achieving sales of £96 million in 2002,
up 17 per cent.
DaTSCAN™, a molecular diagnostic, is Amersham’s newest entrant
to the field of neuro-imaging. It is the only registered product
enabling physicians to objectively identify Parkinson’s disease
through cellular change in the brain, and to distinguish this
from a similar disease, Essential Tremor. DaTSCAN is also being
developed for the differentiation of Lewy body from other forms
of dementia. Based on supporting proof-of-concept data from
external studies, a revised development programme has been
initiated to greatly reduce time-to-market and we will proceed
directly to phase III studies of DaTSCAN for this new indication.
A technetium-based product, Trodat, also for the diagnosis of
Parkinson’s disease, is being developed for the US market and
all pre-clinical milestones have been met to date.
Cancer
Myoview, our radiopharmaceutical diagnostic, obtained
approval for a new indication in Europe for use in breast
tumour imaging in 2002. Breast cancer is one of the most
common cancers in women, and while advances have been
made in breast cancer treatment, the success of these
treatments is highly dependent upon early and accurate
diagnosis of the functional status of the disease. Such diagnosis
can now be achieved with the use of Myoview.
The new chemical entity NC100692 for the imaging of
angiogenesis (blood supply to a tumour) and other potential
indications has progressed well in its pre-clinical safety,
pharmacology and formulation stages.
Pulmonology
Lung disorders involve a range of problems, from chronic
conditions such as asthma to sudden death due to pulmonary
embolism. We are beginning to see excellent results from our
Thrombus agent, NC100668, which moved into phase II trials
in April. This radiopharmaceutical agent has the potential 
to identify patients with pulmonary embolism earlier than
other diagnostic techniques. We also continue to develop the
technology relating to Spin Signal™, using Helispin™ to enable
early detection of lung disease through high-resolution
ventilation imaging of gases using MRI.
Developments in PET imaging 
The use of positron-emission tomography (PET) for the early
detection of tumours is becoming widely accepted, using
fluoro-deoxyglucose (FDG) as the imaging agent. Progress is
being made in our collaboration with General Electric Medical
Systems on the development of a solid-phase chemistry
delivery system for use in an FDG ‘cassette’. Through this
collaboration, we will be able to provide hospitals and clinics
with PET imaging products such as FDG, with consistently high
quality. We are also working to develop new PET diagnostics for
neurological indications. 28 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Nihon Medi-Physics (NMP), our joint venture with Sumitomo
Chemical in Japan, is planning to invest £68 million in
manufacturing facilities to deliver PET diagnostic products to
key medical centres in Japan. NMP aims to construct six new
manufacturing facilities to supplement its three existing sites.
Under current regulations NMP expects to gain a six-year
exclusivity period in the Japanese market for its first PET
diagnostic product.
We continue to expand our Imanet™ network of imaging
research centres, which began in 2001 with the formation of 
a joint venture with the Medical Research Council in the UK.
In 2002 we added a second Imanet centre in conjunction with
the University of Uppsala, Sweden. In February 2003, we
established a new centre in Finland, TRIS (Turku Research
Imaging Solutions Oy), which will work in partnership with
Turku PET Centre. Imanet provides diagnostic services, including
PET, to assist the pharmaceutical industry in monitoring the
effectiveness of new drugs during the development stage.
This helps us identify new diagnostic molecules for use in 
very specific therapeutic applications, and in January 2002 
we announced a major research collaboration with Pfizer to
achieve this. With contractual work for the majority of the
world’s top pharmaceutical companies in addition to the
strategic collaboration with Pfizer, Imanet is progressing well
financially as well as scientifically. The R&D expenditure in
Imanet, which in 2002 included an incremental spend of 
£3 million, is fully recovered by its revenues.
Amersham Biosciences
Amersham Biosciences is a leading global provider of products
and services used in gene, protein and cell research, drug
discovery and development, and biopharmaceutical
manufacturing. Comprising two business areas, discovery
systems and protein separations, we bridge the gap between
life sciences and healthcare. In discovery systems, we provide
high throughput systems to help researchers in industry and
academia understand the genetic and molecular basis of
disease and speed up their drug development. In protein
separations, we provide research and manufacturing
technologies that enable pharmaceutical and biotech
companies to bring new biological drugs to the market.
Together, our activities cover the entire gene to drug spectrum.
In 2002, we undertook a number of strategic initiatives. We
acquired two filtration companies in the US, adding membrane
separation to our product range in industrial-scale protein
separations. We strengthened our capability in informatics
through the acquisition of a controlling stake in our long-term
partner, Cimarron. We bought the CodeLink™ pre-arrayed 
slides technology from Motorola, building our strength in gene
expression and providing us with further opportunities in
genotyping, proteomics and diagnostics. In addition, we
launched important new products in proteomics and bioassays.
Market conditions were difficult in the life sciences discovery
systems market in 2002. Pharmaceutical companies,
particularly in the US, saw their sales and profits threatened 
by patent expirations, generic competition and market pricing,
and as a result they spent markedly less on life science research
instrumentation. We also saw fewer start-up companies
emerging from the biotech sector, reduced later stage public
funding and more caution on spending by companies in new
areas such as high throughput proteomics.
Importantly, customer spending on consumables, reagents and
software remained good for all areas of our business, helping to
offset a significant decline in instrument sales. Pharmaceutical
companies continued to invest in research and development,
and we saw good take-up of new instruments that were
viewed as truly enabling and that significantly improved the
drug development process, particularly in the later stages.
Across the breadth of our global franchise, we saw good sales
growth in Europe and Japan.
The market picture was quite different for protein separations,
where continued strong demand for biopharmaceutical drugs
led to good growth in sales of both engineering-based
bioprocess systems and the separations media used in the
manufacture of these drugs. Indeed, one of the biggest concerns
for our biopharmaceutical customers has been the lack of
Dr Andrew Carr
President, Amersham Biosciences Amersham plc 29
Sales in 2002 were £394 million, down one per cent, impacted
by market conditions, notably the slowdown in pharmaceutical
company spending on capital equipment. Instrument sales,
representing about one quarter of discovery systems sales,
were down significantly compared with 2001. However,
customer spending on consumables, reagents and software
remained good. Discovery systems had an operating loss of
£32 million, including the dilutive impact of the CodeLink and
Cimarron acquisitions. Excluding this, the operating loss was
unchanged from 2001.
The steps taken in our genomics business at the beginning of
2002, together with the Applera litigation settlement, moved
genomics into profit for the year. We are the market leader in
enzymology as applied in genomics, and our good sales of
reagents and consumables not only reduce our exposure to the
market slowdown in instrumentation sales, but also underpin
our vision of developing technologies to enable personalised
medicine. TempliPhi™, the DNA template preparation kit,
continued to make good progress. All of the five major public
genome centres now use TempliPhi, with three of them – the
Joint Genome Institute, the Whitehead Institute, and Baylor
College of Medicine – using it in daily sequence production.
It is also seeing very good acceptance in Japan. New products
based on this technology are in development, and the first of
these, GenomiPhi™, will be launched in 2003 for use in whole
genome amplification.
In July, we acquired the CodeLink pre-arrayed slides business
from Motorola Life Sciences. The acquisition takes us into the
pre-arrayed (ready-to-use) chip market, building on our well-
established business of spotters and scanners for researchers 
to make their own arrays. CodeLink has a unique, patented
manufacturing process that produces arrays of high quality,
sensitivity and reproducibility, and with more useable data
points than any other pre-arrayed slide. There are currently 
six CodeLink products on the market, with several more in
development including higher density chips with 20,000 DNA
spots per slide. CodeLink has been undergoing comparison tests
in customer laboratories and the feedback has been very
positive. As anticipated, the pre-arrayed slide distribution
agreement with Affymetrix in Japan ended in December.
The proteomics product area also saw good sales growth 
in reagents and consumables. Our market-leading 2D DIGE
technology, which allows the protein content of several
samples to be simultaneously analysed and compared,
continued to grow well and development work is ongoing 
to expand further the range of DIGE reagents and software.
During 2002, we launched our new MALDI mass spectrometer,
the Ettan™ MALDI-TOF Pro for protein characterisation, as part
of the complete Ettan range of systems for stand alone or
integrated protein analysis. In February 2003 we entered into
an alliance with Thermo Electron Corporation to co-market
mass spectrometry products to life science researchers.
The collaboration enables us to offer customers a complete 
and user-friendly solution, combining our strong franchise and
knowledge of the proteomics market with Thermo Electron’s
portfolio of mass spectrometry products and extensive sales
and support infrastructure.
Bioassays products are used by researchers to quantify the
biological processes involved in cellular activity, metabolism
and disease. Pharmaceutical customers use our products 
to identify drug targets and develop potential new drugs,
eliminating poor drug candidates and those with side effects as
early as possible, thus reducing the time and cost spent in drug
development. We launched two new instruments in 2002.
The latest generation LEADseeker™ was launched in September
manufacturing capacity, and new plants are being commissioned
or existing facilities expanded to meet the growing demand.
With protein separations continuing to be a strong growth
driver, total sales in Amersham Biosciences in 2002 were
£670 million, up six per cent. Trading profit increased by 
one per cent to £163 million. As planned, the rate of growth in
R&D expenditure was held back, with investment of £88 million,
up three per cent. Operating profit was flat at £75 million.
Excluding the dilutive impact of the CodeLink and Cimarron
acquisitions, operating profit grew nine per cent, benefiting
from the excellent margins in protein separations and the
settlement in February of the Applera patent litigation.
Protein separations
Our protein separations business area is the market leader in
chromatography systems (instruments, software and media) for
the purification of proteins on a laboratory and manufacturing
scale. The good growth in this market is driven by the increasing
number and volume of biopharmaceuticals (such as insulin,
monoclonal antibodies and vaccines) on the market or in
clinical trials. Our products are used in the manufacture of 
over 90 per cent of these biologically-based drugs.
Protein separations sales in 2002 were £276 million, up 
15 per cent, driven by excellent growth in bioprocess sales 
and including first-time benefit from filtration or membrane
separation products. Operating profit was up from £96 million
to £107 million. Our operating margin was 39 per cent.
As anticipated, our sales accelerated through the year, with 
the fourth quarter being particularly strong as biotech and
pharmaceutical companies purchased manufacturing
instruments and media for new production plants and for new
drugs going into clinical trials. We also saw good replenishment
sales of media for existing biopharmaceuticals.
In addition, two further areas contributed to the growth for
industrial-scale bioprocess systems in 2002. First, the market
for products used in the manufacture of DNA-based
pharmaceuticals began to grow rapidly, driving sales of our
OligoProcess™ systems. Second, the membrane separation
businesses, acquired in January, delivered good sales as
biopharmaceutical customers took advantage of our broader
product offering. Membrane separation has been successfully
integrated into Amersham Biosciences and a new site in
Massachusetts, USA, will be completed early in 2003.
The laboratory separations area saw lower instrument sales,
following the exceptionally high growth in 2001, and as a result
of more cautious spending by pharmaceutical companies.
Media sales continued to be good, and a new instrument,
ÄKTApilot™, launched in December for the production of
clinical grade proteins on the benchtop, has been well received
by customers.
We continue to innovate to maintain our market share and
leadership, and in 2003 we will be increasing our R&D
investment in protein separations. During 2002, a new R&D
laboratory was established at our site in Uppsala, Sweden.
Good progress was made with a number of new products that
will be launched in 2003, including a new Streamline™ resin
and column and new filtration membranes.
Discovery systems
Our discovery systems business area provides high throughput
systems to improve the effectiveness of life science and
pharmaceutical R&D, as well as a broad range of laboratory
research tools and technology to purify, detect and analyse
biological molecules. 30 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
and enables researchers to screen over one million drug
compounds a day, in a number of different modalities including
radiometric, luminescent and fluorescent. The IN Cell Analyzer
high throughput system enabling researchers to study the
effects of a potential new drug in living cells in real time,
continued to be well received by customers, and a number of
systems were sold in the last quarter of the year. As well as its
use by pharmaceutical companies, the IN Cell Analyzer is also
being used in a collaboration between Amersham and the
Sloan-Kettering Institute to study the human genome for
disease-related genes. We also saw particularly good growth 
in custom-labelled products used in the drug development
process, as pharmaceutical companies began to outsource more
of this work.
Informatics and software continue to be critical elements of
the life science market, with researchers needing tools to help
them manage, store and analyse the vast amounts of data
being generated. In May 2002, we announced an agreement to
acquire a controlling stake in our long-term partner, Cimarron,
an informatics company based in Salt Lake City, Utah, USA.
This has given us increased synergy and flexibility in the
development of informatics products, and enabled us to better
integrate these products with our existing platforms.We launched
a number of new products – Laboratory Workflow Systems for
sequencing, microarrays and genotyping – towards the end of
the year. Total software sales across Amersham Biosciences
grew well in 2002.
Restructuring of discovery systems
Discovery systems is a business area with good long-term
growth prospects, and its market franchise and strong portfolio
position it well for the future. In light of developments in the life
sciences market, a restructuring programme has been put in
place to accelerate the move into profitability during 2004.
The research and development portfolio will be refocused 
on a smaller number of high-value, systems-based products
linking instruments with reagents, and on high-value, stand-
alone consumables. Our sales and marketing team will 
increase efficiency by more effectively targeting the high
growth customer segments. Driving to deliver a more 
efficient manufacturing cost base and focusing research 
and development on fewer sites will result in the loss of
approximately 400 jobs.
Outlook
Following the good performance in 2002, Amersham is well
placed to achieve further good growth in 2003. The following
guidance is given before the impact of foreign exchange, which
is discussed in the Financial review on page 33.
Amersham Health is expected to continue the good growth in
medical diagnostics excluding Japan, and operating margins are
anticipated to be at similar levels to those achieved in 2002.
Amersham Health sales in Japan are expected to decline at 
a lower rate than in 2002.
Within Amersham Biosciences, protein separations is expected
to see good growth, with sales growth again expected to be
stronger in the second half of the year. Increased investment 
in R&D will bring operating margins down slightly.
Discovery systems is expected to see good sales growth 
in reagents, consumables and software. Visibility for capital
expenditure on instrumentation remains low. The restructuring
plans are expected to bring benefits in 2003 moving the
business to profitability during 2004.
Sir William Castell Chief Executive
