 12 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Myoview™ 
(kit for preparation 
of 
99m
Tc tetrafosmin)
Sales £133 million,
up 26%
Our fastest-growing medical
diagnostic product, this
radiopharmaceutical imaging
agent is used for visualising
blood flow to the heart, and
may also be used in breast
tumour imaging. Patents
to 2009-2010.
Omniscan™ (gadodiamide)
Sales £96 million,
up 17%
Our leading product for MRI
(magnetic resonance imaging),
primarily used for imaging 
the central nervous system
(brain tumours, stroke, spinal
lesions); use being extended
to cardiovascular disease.
Patents to 2007-2009.
Visipaque™ (iodixanol) 
Sales £91 million,
up 18%
An advanced non-ionic
X-ray/CT (computed
tomography) product for the
diagnosis of coronary artery
disease and to aid in stent
placement, whose isotonic
formulation provides an
extra margin of safety and
patient comfort. Patents
to 2008-2011.
Omnipaque™ (iohexol)
Sales £222 million,
up 6%
A non-ionic X-ray/CT
diagnostic, launched 20 years
ago and still the world’s best-
selling diagnostic imaging
product for a wide range of
indications in cardiology,
neurology and oncology.
Off-patent.
Amersham
Health
Medical diagnostics – 55% of total Amersham sales
Pharmaceutical products used during medical scanning procedures to enhance images and provide information about the
structure and functioning of organs, tissues and molecules in the body, for early, accurate diagnosis and management of heart
disease, circulatory disorders, lung disease, brain disease and cancer.
Therapy products – 4% of total Amersham sales
Products using radioactive isotopes for the treatment of cancer.
Performance 2002
Sales Operating profit R&D expenditure Employees
£948 million, £256 million, £95 million, 5,300
up 8% up 9% up 14%
Key products
Optison™ (human albumin
microspheres containing
perflutren)
The leading ultrasound
product for the emerging
market of contrast-enhanced
ultrasound, for visualising the
borders of the heart muscle.
Patents to 2012-2013.
DaTSCAN™ (ioflupane I
123
)
A molecular diagnostic
radiopharmaceutical, this is
the first product that enables
an objective diagnosis of
Parkinson’s disease and related
syndromes. Marketed only in
Europe. Patents to 2012.
Research platform Imanet™
Imanet is an expanding
network of imaging research
centres where Amersham
Health works in collaboration
with the world’s top
pharmaceutical companies.
It uses innovative imaging
solutions to accelerate drug
discovery and development,
and to create new molecular
diagnostics that will enable
physicians, in the future, to
more accurately predict and
diagnose disease and to tailor
treatment accordingly.
Brachytherapy products
Our leading line of radioactive
iodine and palladium seed
products – OncoSeed™,
Rapid Strand™, EchoSeed™,
TheraSeed™ – implanted in
the prostate gland to treat
prostate cancer.
Business at a glance Amersham plc 13
It all makes sense … Our products and markets
Protein separations – 17% of total Amersham sales
Chromatography purification systems, membrane products and media used in the manufacture of biopharmaceuticals 
(any biologically-derived drug, eg. insulin, vaccines, DNA-based medicines, monoclonal antibodies, interferon), and for the
laboratory scale separation of proteins for research and drug development.
Discovery systems – 24% of total Amersham sales 
High throughput systems (instruments, reagents, software) for genomics (DNA sequencing, gene expression and gene
variation), proteomics (study of proteins and their role in biological function), and bioassays (analysis of cellular processes 
in metabolism and disease, used for screening and testing of potential new drugs).
Performance 2002
Sales Operating profit R&D expenditure Employees
£670 million, £75 million, £88 million, 4,650
up 6% flat* up 3%
*Up 9% excluding the £8 million dilutive impact of the CodeLink™ and Cimarron acquisitions.
Protein separations – key platforms Discovery systems – key platforms
Bioprocessing – columns 
Our bioprocess systems
(instruments, media and
software) are used by leading
pharmaceutical and biotech
companies for the industrial
manufacture of over 90 per
cent of the biopharmaceuticals
on the market or in develop-
ment. The wide range of
chromatography columns
includes Chromaflow™ and
Streamline™ brands.
Bioprocessing – membrane
separation
Hollow fibre filtration
membranes used in
bioprocessing – an essential
step for removing impurities
in biologically-based drugs.
Bioprocessing – separations
media
Consumables used in
bioprocessing. Leading brands
include Sepharose™,
MabSelect™, and Source™.
Laboratory separations 
ÄKTA™ platform – the gold
standard in chromatography
systems for laboratory
purification of proteins before
scale-up to manufacturing.
Amersham
Biosciences
Genomics 
DNA sequencing: MegaBACE™
DNA sequencer for decoding
the genetic structure of human,
animal and plant species.
TempliPhi™ template
preparation kit for producing
DNA samples. Gene expression:
CodeLink™ pre-arrayed slides
and Lucidea™ custom slides
platform, on which thousands
of DNA samples are scanned 
to identify differences in the
way genes are expressed.
Proteomics
Ettan™ high throughput
protein analysis platform
utilising systems such as mass
spectrometry and electro-
phoresis to identify and
characterise proteins, and to
compare protein expression 
in diseased and normal
tissues, enabling drugs to be
targeted to diseases. Products
also include the CyDye™
range of fluorescent dyes.
Bioassays
Instruments include
LEADseeker™, which has 
the ability to screen up to
1,000,000 new drug
compounds a day, and
IN Cell Analyzer, which enables
scientists to study the effects
of a potential new drug on
living cells in real time.
Products also include a range
of custom-labelled reagents
for toxicology testing.
Informatics
Scierra™ platform of software
solutions for managing and
organising the vast amounts
of data being generated in life
sciences research.
Business at a glance 14 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Market report – medical
diagnostics/radiotherapy
Note: Market numbers within text represent internal
company estimates unless stated otherwise.
Despite significant advances in the understanding of the
underlying causes of disease in recent years, medicine still
revolves primarily around the treatment of existing conditions
following the appearance of symptoms. To select the most
appropriate course of treatment for each individual patient, the
physician first needs to make a correct diagnosis but must also
establish the location, extent and severity of disease and
determine a prognosis.
Medical imaging is uniquely able to provide this information
and is a key component of modern healthcare. In 2002,
approximately 800 million medical imaging procedures were
performed worldwide. Of these, approximately 120 million
scans were enhanced or made possible with medical diagnostic
products, generating revenues of over £2.8 billion. Medical
diagnostics markets are demonstrating strong year on year
growth and this is expected to continue.
There are four main imaging modalities – X-ray including
computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging
(MRI), radiopharmaceutical imaging and ultrasound.
Radiopharmaceutical imaging always requires the use of a
diagnostic product, while the other modalities may or may not
use a contrast medium to enhance the image, depending on
the procedure. The choice of technique depends upon a number
of factors including the type of diagnostic information needed,
instrument availability, physician preference, and cost/benefit
considerations.
For the management of heart disease, for example, the
cardiologist might use radiopharmaceutical imaging to
determine how well the heart muscle is being perfused with
blood, contrast-enhanced ultrasound to improve endocardial
border delineation, and X-ray to perform a coronary
angiography of the blood vessels. All of these examinations
would normally use a medical diagnostic product.
Market developments in 2002
In the US, the rapid growth of the over-50 population where more
diagnostic procedures are required, combined with the growing
ability to do more procedures due to technological advances in
the equipment sector, are expanding the need for medical
diagnostics. Pricing has been maintained at fairly stable levels.
In Europe, the tough reimbursement environment continues to
affect pricing. The markets are still dominated by state funding, Amersham plc 15
It all makes sense … Our products and markets
although the private market is increasing. However, the
installed hardware base in Europe is expanding and this will
allow further volume growth.
The Japanese diagnostic pharmaceutical market continues 
to show modest volume growth but the overall environment
remains challenging due to ongoing healthcare reform measures
and government-mandated reimbursement price cuts.
Amersham Health, Bracco, Tyco Healthcare (Mallinckrodt
Imaging), Schering and Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS) Medical
Imaging (formerly Dupont), together with their respective
licensees, are the major players in the medical diagnostics
market, with more than 90 per cent share between them.
Company Global market share (%)
Amersham Health 38
Bracco 18
Tyco/Mallinckrodt 14
Schering 12
BMS/Dupont 12
Guerbet 2
Others 4
Market drivers
Increasing demand for medical diagnostics is being driven by
the ageing population and the rise in prevalence of age-related
diseases such as cancer, Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease,
stroke and heart failure. These diseases represent the highest
cost burden to healthcare systems in industrialised nations, and
there is tremendous pressure to develop tests that can assist in
earlier diagnosis and aid selection of the most appropriate
treatments in order to reduce costs.
Prevalence and economic cost of major diseases in the US
(Source: Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, 2000)
Cardiovasculardisease 68.8
$148
Cancer 8.0
$107
Neurological disease 25.6
$196
Alzheimer’s disease 4.0
$100
Depression 17.0
$44
Stroke 4.0
$43
Annual prevalence in US (million persons)
Annual economic cost in US ($ billion)
This has led Amersham Health to focus its product development
on disease states, rather than a modality-driven approach, and
to include cardiologists, neurologists, oncologists and internal
medicine physicians in its customer base, in addition to
radiologists, hospitals and purchasing organisations. The aim is
to enable physicians and their patients – who are becoming
better informed and expect to be included in decisions about
managing their disease – to select the imaging procedure and
diagnostic product they feel is most appropriate in each case.
Scanner technology is also making significant advances.
The emphasis is on improving the speed and functionality 
of instrumentation, allowing increased numbers of procedures
per unit.
Looking further ahead, our rapidly increasing knowledge of
genomics raises the very real prospect of being able to be 
truly proactive in predicting and preventing disease, and to
determine which medication is best suited for each individual.
Medical imaging technologies which can identify pre-
symptomatic disease, increasingly through monitoring of the
expression of genes and the function of the proteins for which
they code within cells, will be key to delivering personalised
medicine: finding the right therapy, for the right patient, at the
right time, with the right outcome.
X-ray/CT medical diagnostics
Total scans approx 630m
Enhanced scans approx 75m
Market size approx £1.4bn
X-ray is the most frequently performed imaging procedure
covering all body areas and is often the entry point for the
diagnostic work-up. X-ray computed tomography, or CT scanning,
has had the greatest impact on the medical diagnostics market.
CT scanning allows cross-sectional imaging of the body with
exquisite depiction of anatomic detail, and is finding growing
use in coronary angiography and interventional procedures.
Approximately 40 per cent of CT scans currently involve the
use of medical diagnostic products.
The development of multi-slice CT machines, which are capable
of performing sub-second imaging of millimetre-thin slices of
body tissues, has opened up a host of new applications such as
blood vessel imaging and blood clot imaging, many of which
require large volumes of medical diagnostic contrast media.
MRI medical diagnostics 
Total scans approx 40m
Enhanced scans approx 10m 
Market size over £320m 
Number of MRI machines over 15,000
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is often the method of
choice for imaging the central nervous system, particularly for
detecting cancers in the brain and lesions in the spinal canal
and spinal column. More recently, MRI has found use in imaging
the blood vessels and depicting brain regions affected by stroke.
Roughly 25 per cent of the MRI scans use a medical diagnostic
product with every segment of contrast-enhanced MRI
experiencing growth, and this trend is expected to continue.
New MRI contrast media are being developed for vascular
imaging, cardiac imaging, visualisation of air spaces in the lungs,
and for targeting specific tissues such as lymph nodes and blood
clots. The ability to identify high-risk patients in the foreseeable
future,along with the need for accurate anatomical and functional
information, will drive the market for these new products. 16Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Only a fraction of the ultrasound scans currently use a medical
diagnostic product, the primary use being to improve the
assessment of heart wall motion through endocardial border
delineation, or visualisation of the surface of the heart muscle.
The true utility of ultrasound in cardiology could be realised
with the visualisation of myocardial perfusion. This will require
advances in instrumentation along with advanced ultrasound
diagnostic products, in order to obtain a reliable and robust
imaging procedure. In radiology, contrast-enhanced ultrasound
has the potential to differentiate between benign and
malignant tumours in various tissues. Developments such as
these would expand the ultrasound medical diagnostics market.
Radiotherapy market 
The most significant therapeutic market for radioisotopes is
prostate brachytherapy, a minimally invasive outpatient
procedure in which radioactive iodine or palladium seeds are
implanted within the prostate gland to irradiate the tumour.
The mounting clinical evidence supporting the efficacy of this
treatment was further underpinned in 2002 through two
important studies, one relating to the treatment of high-risk
patients with palladium
103
seeds in combination with external
beam radiation, and the other demonstrating the benefits of
Amersham’s Rapid Strand™ iodine
125
delivery system.
In the United States, around 40,000 patients each year, or 25
per cent of those presenting with early stage prostate cancer,
are treated with brachytherapy seed implants. Slower market
growth and increased competition, with the number of
competitors rising from two in 1998 to 14 today, have resulted
in significant pricing and market share pressure. In 2002,
the US Medicare reimbursement system set a fixed cost for
brachytherapy procedures and further changes will take effect
in 2003, further intensifying the price pressures.
Brachytherapy is gaining acceptance in Europe and while only 
a small percentage of early stage prostate cancer patients
currently receive seed implants, the market has substantial
development potential.
Radiolabelled monoclonal antibodies are being developed for
the treatment of several types of cancer. The antibodies target
specific tumour cells and then attach to them, allowing the
radioactive component to destroy tumour cells while sparing
the surrounding healthy cells. 2002 saw the first of these
compounds licensed by the US FDA for the treatment of non-
Hodgkins lymphoma patients who have failed to respond to
previous therapies.
Other radiotherapy products include strontium
89
, which can
target growing bone cancers and help to alleviate pain, and
iodine
131
for the treatment of thyroid tumours.
Radiopharmaceutical medical diagnostics 
Scans (enhanced) approx 28m 
Market size over £1.1bn 
Number of gamma cameras over 15,000
Radiopharmaceutical imaging provides metabolic and functional
information about diseases such as stroke, dementia, coronary
artery disease and cancer that complements anatomical
imaging such as CT or MRI. Radiopharmaceutical imaging
always requires the use of a radiolabelled medical diagnostic
product, which binds to and accumulates in the cells or tissues
being studied, and the image is obtained with the aid of a
gamma camera.
Recent innovations in radiopharmaceutical imaging enable 
the visualisation of precise cellular activities and subtle changes
in organ function, such as changes in brain function due 
to Parkinsonism.
The latest advance in radiopharmaceutical imaging is positron-
emission tomography (PET). PET, an advanced molecular
imaging technique, can provide images of the entire body 
and visualises biochemical events at the cellular level. It is an
extremely sensitive technique for the early detection of tumours
and metastases, and PET procedures are now reimbursed by
Medicare in the US for seven types of cancer. The clinical
application of PET technology is a rapidly growing emerging
market, with around 300,000 procedures performed in the 
US in 2002. Continued advances in instrumentation and
improvements in PET chemistry could expand its use into 
other significant markets, eg. the management of neurological
conditions such as Alzheimer’s disease.
Another significant development is the advent of compound
modality instruments combining high-resolution CT images of
the anatomy with low-resolution functional (PET or SPECT)
images during parts of the same imaging procedure. These enable
more accurate localisation of disease and assist the planning of
surgical interventions and radiotherapy. Such developments in
so-called ‘fusion imaging’ are expected to fuel the growth of
both CT and PET imaging.
Ultrasound medical diagnostics
Total scans approx 140m
Enhanced scans approx 0.5m 
Market size over £10m
Number of instruments over 150,000
Ultrasound is used extensively by both hospital and office-
based cardiologists to evaluate patients with known or
suspected coronary artery disease. The vast majority of cardiac
patients are screened by ultrasound, and in 2001 over 
25 million ultrasound scans of the heart were performed
throughout the world. However, results are often equivocal with
patients frequently referred on to more reliable and expensive
techniques (eg. CT and MRI).
