 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 5
Chief Executive’ s Statement
Financial restructuring
The year under review witnessed the
completion of the financial restructuring
which enabled the Group to survive and 
gave it a solid base from which to grow again
in the future. This restructuring, described
fully in a circular to Shareholders dated 
12 July 2005, comprised a Debt for Equity
Exchange by the Group’s lenders, combined
with a Placing and Open Offer to raise 
£50 million. The successful completion of
these transactions on 29 September 2005
left the Group with a more manageable
balance sheet and with a much reduced 
net debt: £6.2 million at 30 September 
and £22.2 million at the year end.
The cash outflow in the second six months
was planned and expected. In the prospectus
dated 26 August 2005 we warned of a cash
outflow of £36 – 46 million on three legacy
issues: the repayment of two stakeholder
advances and the remaining costs associated
with Construction and Facilities Management
(FM). By March, one of the stakeholder
advances had been repaid in full and the 
other was 77 per cent cleared. Part of the
Construction and FM outflow had occurred,
but there will be a further outflow in 2006-07,
particularly during the first six months.
Overall the range of £36 – 46 million
described in September remains a valid
target, although I now believe it to be 
towards the top end.
At the time of the restructuring in September
we put in place a temporary and very
expensive revolving credit facility. I am
pleased to report that we have recently
refinanced that with a new three year facility
at more normal interest rates, which reflects
the good progress that the Group has made.
The new agreement is with Burdale Financial
Limited, a subsidiary of the Bank of Ireland.
Health and Safety
The business reviews in this report indicate
the progress we continue to make in our
safety practices across the Group. I would
like to pay tribute to all those who have
worked so hard to set exemplary safety
standards in the Group. Of particular note
was the Rail and Plant accident frequency
rate (AFR) in 2005-06 which was 0.21 serious
accidents per 100,000 hours. This was less
than half the rate of 2004-05 and well below
the Network Rail target rate of 0.30. 
The core business 
Critical to our survival has been the ability of
the Rail and Plant division to deliver excellent
results safely and efficiently, not only for 
our key customer, Network Rail, but also 
for a range of other customers. It has been
reassuring that at a time when so much 
of my time has been focused on the
restructuring, Jarvis Rail and Fastline have
continued to deliver solid results throughout
the year. There have been some notable
achievements such as the securing of the 
On Track Machine and Stoneblower contracts
with Network Rail. While Network Rail
continues to be a major focus for our
business, we also recognise the need to
diversify into new markets. We have already
begun extending into international markets
led by an experienced, international business
development team. Fastline’s entry into the
rail freight market is further evidence of
constructive new business development.
Having fully refurbished two Class 56
locomotives and leased one other, plus 
24 container flat wagons, Fastline Freight 
is now targeting customers currently using 
road haulage. 
The Roads division has, disappointingly,
proven more difficult to turnaround than 
was first expected. However, much 
work has been done on identifying and
understanding the issues to be addressed
and a thorough improvement programme is
well advanced. Prismo, our roads markings
and specialist surfacing business, has
recently received the first of its new road
painting specialist vehicles produced by our
Somerford Equipment business. These will
greatly improve the operational efficiency 
of our marking crews. The Chorley
manufacturing plant has also significantly
increased its production levels and is now
performing far more efficiently. I remain
confident in the core offerings provided by
Prismo. It is at the forefront of innovative
product development designed to improve
road safety and the quality and performance
As we move into the second quarter of the
current financial year, the Group continues
to make good progress 6 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Chief Executive’ s Statement
of our Prismo products, manufactured at
Chorley is outstanding. Having made the
decision to retain Herefordshire Jarvis
Services (HJS) in October last year the
management team there has been
strengthened and that business has now
moved into profitability. Our expectation is
that this business will make further progress
and that the underlying business model
developed here will be will be inherently
exportable. 
Non-core business / 
Accommodation Services
Steady progress has been made during 
the year on the critical task of exiting from
Construction and stabilising the Facilities
Management (FM) business.
In Construction,14 contracts were the
subject of Settlement Deeds in January 2005.
Work on 13 of these was either handed over
to another contractor or completed by the
year end, although defect clearance is still in
progress on four of them. The remaining one
is at Whittington Hospital in North London;
construction of phase one is progressing 
well and should be complete in late August.
The Group is likely to participate in the
delivery of the second phase.
Of the 21 old construction contracts where
there was outstanding work to clear defects
at the beginning of the year, only 11 remain
incomplete. However, since the Group’s
financial future was assured in September,
the pace has picked up, good progress has
been made and relationships with the
schools and local education authorities
concerned have improved considerably. 
Of these 11, the majority are likely to be
completed in the summer holidays this year. 
The other key focus of activity has been on
FM where the Group started the year with 
48 contracts, 17 of which were disposed 
of as part of a planned programme. The
remaining 31 include 28 PFI contracts, 21 of
these are schools contracts covering a total 
of 88 schools and five are hospital contracts.
Five PFI contracts perform poorly and are loss
making after allocation of overhead costs.
However, brought forward provisions cover
these contract losses. 
We aim to improve the results of this
business through a dedicated operational
improvement programme and by
benchmarking of charges (for some 
services) to market rates. This generally
occurs between five and seven years
from the start of the FM contract. Where
appropriate the business is also holding
discussions with the clients to revise the
most onerous contract conditions. 
Personnel
As the incoming Chief Executive I must pay
thanks to my predecessor in the role, Alan
Lovell who took charge of the Group in its
darkest days in October 2004 and only moved
on at the end of June of this year. This year’s
Annual Report is a testament to his success.
The Group is now in a much better state 
of health.
I would also like to record a great debt of
gratitude to Alasdair Marnoch who was
Finance Director of the Group for fifteen
months, during some very difficult times. 
The finances of the Group and the
performance of the function both improved
dramatically under his stewardship. I am
delighted to welcome John O’Kane as his
successor. John has had exceptional
experience as Finance Director of Kelda 
and Peterhouse and we are very pleased 
to have secured his services.
These are the major changes to the
management team over the past twelve
months and I am delighted to report that we
have achieved stability in the management
structures of the business with a strong team
capable of taking the Company forward.
The future
As we move into the second quarter of the
current financial year the Group continues to
make good progress. The finances of the
Group are in better shape and we have a high
quality and focused management team in
place. However, there remain significant
challenges. The award of new work in Rail 
and Plant has been slower than anticipated.
We need to continue our thrust to drive
operational improvement in the Roads
division and FM business and complete 
the exit from Construction.
Richard Entwistle
Chief Executive
14 August 2006
