 2 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Chairman’ s Statement
The year has seen a dramatic turnaround in
the fortunes of Jarvis plc as the Group has
successfully charted a course through a
complex financial restructuring. The year
started with the Group’s survival being in
question but has ended on a much more
optimistic note. In the full year results to 
31 March 2006 the core businesses 
recorded a profit of £16.2 million at the 
operating level, before non-recurring costs 
(2005: £59.1 million loss). The results are 
in line with the expectations of the Board,
though there is clearly further room for
improvement.
In last year’s statement, I said that there was
a practical strategy which the Group intended
to pursue to stem the financial losses. This
included divesting the Group of peripheral
businesses and focusing on our core
capabilities. During the past year we have
stuck to that strategy, delivering a solid result
and most importantly giving the Group, its
employees and Shareholders a foundation 
for growth and a sustainable future. 
Credit must go to the entire Jarvis
community, which under the careful guidance
of former Chief Executive Alan Lovell and his
successor Richard Entwistle, has achieved a
remarkable turnaround both in terms of
financial and business performance.
Alan Lovell, who joined us in October 2004
specifically to undertake the recovery task,
has now moved on from the Group to take up
a new challenge elsewhere. The Group, and
all associated with it, owe him a significant
debt and on behalf of everyone I wish to
record our sincere thanks to him for the 
work he has completed. The skill, enthusiasm
and good humour he has brought to Jarvis,
despite the considerable challenges he has
faced, have been hugely appreciated. He has
left a Jarvis that is transformed and with a
strengthened senior team in place. With his
help, the Group now has every reason to 
look forward to a positive future.
There is of course a significant amount of
work still to do to complete our recovery 
as Richard Entwistle takes on the role of
Chief Executive, based in Y ork. Across the 
business there continues to be a structured
programme of operational improvement in
place. We are now well placed to move
forward with a controlled but effective
strategy focused on our core competencies.
A better year
I reported at the half year the Group’s return
to operating profit and this trend continues
with our reporting a full year operating profit
of £11.1 million before non-recurring costs 
(2005: £75.3 million loss). The Group
recorded a loss for the year mainly due to
finance costs which include a one-off figure
incurred in the first half relating to the
financial restructuring process. 
Financial results
This year is the first full year in which 
we produce results under International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and 
the comparatives have been adjusted
accordingly. Revenue for the year reduced
from £509.7 million to £401.2 million, due in
part to the careful pruning of the businesses
undertaken during the previous year to
ensure the survival of the Group. The Group
operating profit of £9.3 million reflects the
significant changes that have been brought
about in the Group compared with the 
£363.5 million loss in the previous full year
results. As indicated above, finance costs of
£67.8 million in the year, including charges 
of £61.9 million of non-cash adjustments 
in relation to the Debt for Equity Exchange,
produce a loss before tax of £58.2 million
(2005: £391.0 million). The overall loss for 
the period, after taking into account post 
tax profit from discontinued operations, 
is £56.6 million (2005: £332.1 million). 
Net debt at the year end was in line with 
the projections made at the time of the 
Debt for Equity Exchange at £22.2 million 
(2005: £303.8 million).
Refinancing
Documentation for a £67 million three-year
committed and secured credit facility has
been signed in July 2006 which is being
used to refinance the Group’s existing loan
facilities and provide liquidity. The new facility
is led by Burdale Financial Limited, the
secured asset-based lending subsidiary 
of the Bank of Ireland.  Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 3
The new facility is split into a senior tranche
of £55 million and a junior tranche of 
£12 million with an initial blended margin 
over LIBOR of approximately 4 per cent. The
senior tranche comprises term and revolving
loans. £10.4 million of the revolving portion is
subject to monthly reductions from January
2007 onwards. The junior tranche is subject
to reductions of £2 million in January 2008
and a further £2 million in September 2009,
subject to the satisfaction of performance
and headroom tests. Voluntary prepayment
of the junior tranche is not permitted for one
year. Subsequent prepayment of this junior
tranche is subject to performance and
headroom tests. 
The facility documentation contains a 
number of undertakings including a dividend
restriction. The Company can pay a dividend
only where, had the dividend been paid, 
the available but undrawn funding under 
the facility would have exceeded £25 million
for a period of 90 days prior to such payment.
The Company has agreed to issue 4,602,460
new ordinary shares, approximately 
3 per cent of its current issued share capital.
Dividend
The results for the year and the restructuring
that took place during this period have
significantly improved the Group balance
sheet. However, there remains a deficit 
on Shareholders funds of £28.2 million 
(2005: £414.3 m). Accordingly, the Board 
does not recommend a dividend be paid in
respect of the year.
Safety
Jarvis has always asserted that safety is the
number one priority. As far as our Rail and
Plant business is concerned this culture has
been maintained and observed. The business
performed particularly well in Network Rail’s
“365 Day Challenge” which set a target for 
all its contractors to remain RIDDOR* free
throughout the year. Network Rail recognised
the performance of the business when two
contract teams achieved 1.5 million
RIDDOR*-free man-hours between them.
Network Rail presented safety awards to our
West Coast Renewals Team and our Scottish
West Coast Main Line Route Modernisation
Team. Network Rail has also set an accident
frequency rate challenge of no more than 
0.3 RIDDOR reportable accidents per
100,000 hours worked on its projects. 
The Group was able to report a performance
of 0.21 against the target for the year which
placed the business at the forefront of 
the industry’s performance. This highly
developed safety culture is now being
exported to the other parts of the Group 
to strengthen their safety operations.
Operational recovery
The operating profit in the core businesses of
Rail and Plant and Roads has been a pleasing
£16.2 million, before non-recurring items
(2005: £59.1 million loss), on a slightly lower
than expected turnover of £312.4 million
(2005: £339.8 million). The core operating
margin of some 5.2 per cent is satisfactory
and in line with our expectations at the time
of the prospectus for the Placing and Open
Offer last year, with Rail and Plant showing 
a particularly healthy margin. While the
Accommodation Services division returned
losses, I am reassured that this was in line
with our expectations. The Roads division
also recorded a loss, which is disappointing. 
I am however pleased to report that we
continue to make progress in returning this
operation to an acceptable level of profit. 
Core businesses
The core businesses of Rail and Plant and
Roads continued to deliver high quality
services to our customers throughout a
particularly difficult and trying period at the
beginning of the year. With little or no money
for capital investment, the operational
management delivered an outstanding
turnaround from the significant losses of
previous years. 
The Rail and Plant business continues 
to deliver efficient, effective and safe 
rail network services across the UK for 
their major customer Network Rail, and
increasingly Transport Scotland. The Plant
element of this business has seen some
major developments, not the least of which 
is the new three-year contract with Network
Rail for the supply of On Track Machinery 
and the development of our freight business. 
The Roads business has, disappointingly,
proven more difficult to turnaround than 
was first expected. However, much 
work has progressed on identifying and
understanding the issues to be addressed
and a thorough improvement programme 
is well progressed. 
Non-core business / 
Accommodation Services
Steady progress has been made during 
the year on the critical task of exiting from
Construction and stabilising the Facilities
Management (FM) business. In Construction
14 contracts were the subject of Settlement
Deeds in January 2005. I am pleased to 
report that all but one of the 14 construction
contracts have now been handed over and
are in operational use. In addition, there has
been an intense period of work to remedy 
the outstanding issues on recently completed
construction contracts that have proved a
drain on the business.
The Company has refocused its Facilities
Management (FM) activities and has a
service improvement programme underway
to take the business to a level where it will
have a sustainable future.
Management
At the beginning of this report I mentioned
the work undertaken by Alan Lovell during
the previous 18 months which has laid the
foundations for the Group’s recovery. 
Alasdair Marnoch stepped in as Group
Finance Director at the time of the
restructuring last year. He had also joined 
as part of the turnaround team and left at the
end of May this year having paved the way 
for the new three-year working capital facility.
We are enormously grateful to Alasdair for his
contribution. The Group has had succession
plans in place for both Alan and Alasdair 
for more than six months. I was therefore
pleased that the Board confirmed the
appointment of Richard Entwistle, who joined
the Group last September as Chief Operating
Officer, as the Chief Executive of the Group 
in June this year. The Board also welcomed
John O’Kane who joined in April this year,
replacing Alasdair as Group Finance Director
in May. The Executive team supporting
Richard and John remain largely unchanged
from last year creating a stable, commercially
focused and highly skilled team. 
The core businesses of Rail, Plant and Roads
continued to deliver high quality services to
our customers 4 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Chairman’ s Statement
The contribution of our three Non-Executive
Directors also deserves recognition. They
have made themselves available to the
executive team during the year on many
occasions over and above the level normally
required from Non-Executive Directors. Their
advice on improvements to internal controls
and on issues arising from the Group’s
operations have been widely welcomed 
and appreciated within the business.
Future prospects
Our core businesses are now returning to 
a position of strength and we will carefully
evaluate the potential of the remaining 
non-core activities. As we continue to 
recover we will remain focused on our core
competencies and our drive for controlled
growth elsewhere. The UK and international
markets offer significant prospects for that
growth. The use of our Accutrack technology
in Holland is a successful example of this.
In the coming year, our view of the full year
remains in line with the forecast made at 
the time of the prospectus for Placing and
Open Offer. The year will be unevenly split
with the majority of the return being seen in
the second half. This is due to the change 
in the structure of the business, and the
slower than expected start to the year in 
Rail and Plant as a consequence of a number
of contracts being let later than expected. 
The prospectus for the Placing and Open
Offer stated that cash outflows associated
with the non-core businesses were expected
to be £36 million to £46 million. These
outflows are now expected to be at the
higher end of this range, and this, together
with the slow start in Rail and Plant, will
impact on the first half cash position.
Immediately following the completion of 
the new facility described above, proforma
net debt, excluding transaction costs, was
expected to be approximately £36 million. 
As was stated in the prospectus, net debt 
is still expected to peak in the first half of 
the current financial year.
With the financial restructuring now behind
us, and our operational performance vastly
improved, the Board believes the Group now
has a firm foundation from which to improve
Shareholder value in future years.
Steven Norris 
Chairman
14 August 2006
*The Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous
Occurrences Regulations 1995.
