 4 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2007
Chief Executive’ s Statement
Financial restructuring
During the year to March 2006 the business
carried out a complex financial restructuring
which included a Debt for Equity Exchange
and a very expensive working capital facility. 
This was the very important first step in 
the recovery of the business. During this
financial period we have continued that
recovery process with the establishment of a
new asset backed working capital facility with
Burdale Financial Limited, a subsidiary of the
Bank of Ireland, and the raising of additional
funding through a Placing and Open Offer,
which we successfully completed on 
2 April 2007.
The £25m arising from the Placing and 
Open Offer will be used to fund the future
development of the business. 
Health and Safety
Health and Safety continues to be our
number one priority and we have once 
again performed well in the period. Our Rail
and Plant businesses achieved an Accident
Frequency Rate (AFR) of 0.23 accidents per
100,000 hours worked. In more literal terms
this would mean that one employee would 
only have one reportable accident every 
217 years.
During the period the Integrated
Management Teams (IMTs) at Glasgow 
and Peterborough have received awards for
achieving 730 days without any reportable
accidents. They have become two of only
three track renewals IMTs countrywide 
to reach this milestone – a tremendous
achievement.
Rail and Plant
During the period much of our time has been
focused on developing and implementing 
the business strategy, which now centres
around Rail and Plant. The emphasis is on 
the provision of innovative mechanised
services, which involves the development 
of techniques and bespoke equipment
designed to improve output and reduce 
risk to our workforce. Innovation and an in
depth understanding of customers’ current
and future needs is at the very heart of our
business. There are many examples of this,
the most recent being the completion of 
a major Switch and Crossing installation 
at Hunterston in Scotland in April 2007. 
We developed the modular techniques and
designed the bespoke equipment integral 
to the process. The initiative has received
much acclaim from our client, Network Rail.
Unfortunately, expenditure in the UK rail
market in the period was at lower levels than
anticipated in our areas of activity. This was
due to the completion of the West Coast
Route Modernisation Project and delays in
the awards of new projects which did not
start coming through until late in the period.
This impacted Rail and Plant volumes which
were significantly down on previous years
and resulted in a difficult trading period.
However, there were a number of notable
successes. We commenced our Freight
operation branded Fastline Freight in 
June 2006. We now transport containers
from Thamesport to Doncaster and
Birmingham using our three locomotives 
and have some significant opportunities 
in the pipeline.
The path is clear and the business continues 
to become stronger and more stable. Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2007 5
In the summer of 2006 our equipment 
was used in Europe for the first time. 
Our bespoke Rapid Ballast Excavator,
nicknamed “Mole”, excavated 26km of track
in 26 days as part of a track renewals project
for BAM Rail in Holland. The project has given 
the business much greater coverage in the
European market and this together with our
appointment of an experienced International
Director is yielding a number of enquiries. Our
approach is selective and controlled centring
around the use of our mechanised services
offerings.
Following our strategic decision to
concentrate on our best performing Rail 
and Plant businesses we decided to sell the
poorly performing Prismo Road Markings
business and our share of the Accord Jarvis
Limited joint venture. We completed these
transactions in December 2006 and February
2007 respectively. The residual element of
the Roads division Hereford Jarvis Services
Limited (HJS), our joint venture with
Herefordshire County Council, is now
managed as part of the FM business. 
I am pleased to report that HJS has been
transformed and is now trading profitably.
Accommodation Services
The business has made excellent progress
during the period. The FM business has
stabilised and the exit from Construction is
well on the way to completion.
In Construction we received a completion
certificate for the last remaining contract,
Whittington Hospital, in October 2006. We
are assisting with the project management 
of a second phase of Whittington Hospital
but are only providing management support
and this is expected to cease in the autumn 
of 2007. We also completed a large and
planned defect rectification programme in
the summer of 2006 which cleared the vast
majority of outstanding defects on the old
Construction contracts. There are still 
some defects to complete on the remaining
contracts which we will attend to during the
course of the coming year as the access
opportunities arise.
The termination of the three major loss-
making FM contracts, which we announced
on 4 June, will transform the FM business.
These contracts, together with a profitable
fourth contract in the same area,
necessitated a sizeable negative premium.
Although two loss-making contracts remain,
the overall FM business will now be profitable
at contract level and will require significantly
less management effort going forward. The
management team in this business has 
been significantly strengthened and during
the period we embarked on a major service
improvement programme supported by 
a consultant specialising in operational
effectiveness. This has had considerable
benefit and the business has stabilised.
The FM business now consists of 28
contracts, including HJS, of which 24 are
PFIs. We retain an equity interest in 7 of
these PFIs. The major proportion of the
portfolio is 16 schools projects. The other
projects include hospitals, training facilities,
local government offices and fire stations.
The future
We have a clear strategy and know precisely
what we need to achieve and have made
significant steps towards our goals during 
the period.
As we continue through the recovery 
process there is a great need to introduce
more appropriate management information
systems, to further reduce our costs to match
the size and shape of our new business and
indeed to further improve the skillset in
certain areas to match our mechanised
services approach. This is a difficult process
but will result in the business being stronger
and in much better shape to capitalise on 
the opportunities ahead.
The volumes of work in Rail have started 
to pick up. The awards that we received in
January 2007 for Rugby remodelling, the
Category C framework agreement and the
LL25 line speed enhancement project in
Scotland were evidence of this. Network 
Rail, our main client, has also stated that it
plans to significantly increase expenditure 
on enhancement projects over the next 
two years. This is to facilitate the growth
expected from both passenger and freight
services in the UK. Clearly, this is very
positive news for the UK Rail industry 
in general.
The Plant business is invariably linked to Rail,
in that as UK Rail volumes pick up so do Plant
volumes. However, our strategy is also to sell
our services overseas and we plan to push
very hard to increase our overseas activity in
the year. We also need to continue to develop
innovative solutions to service the needs of
the Rail market. To this end, we have a small
dedicated team focussing on bringing our
developments to market and where
appropriate securing protection for our
intellectual property. The Freight business
has started well. The next steps are to further
develop the intermodal container service.
There is still much to do, but as previously
stated the path is clear and the business
continues to become stronger and more
stable.
Richard Entwistle
Chief Executive
11 June 2007
