 2 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2007
Chairman’ s Statement
Jarvis has been able to achieve some
significant milestones in the business
strategy laid out in our AGM statement 
last year, despite an industry wide downturn
in rail and plant volumes in the period. We
have divested ourselves of unprofitable and
distracting peripheral activities in order to
concentrate on our core strengths and
market leadership in rail and plant. During 
the period we completed the sale of our road
markings business to Ennis Paint Inc.. We
have now agreed the termination of the most
unprofitable of our Facilities Management
contracts, so that the remainder of our FM
business will thereafter be profitable at the
contract level, and we have successfully
completed the remaining Construction
contracts, and defects on old contracts
are largely finished.
On 2 April 2007 we successfully completed 
a £25m Placing and Open Offer. We have
accordingly adopted this as our reporting 
date to account for this transaction in the
period. These new funds enable us to do
three things. Firstly, to deliver arguably the
most important component of our forward
strategy, namely further significant
reductions to our cost base reflecting the
new shape of the business; secondly, to 
fund the divestment of the unprofitable 
FM contracts; and thirdly to invest in the
innovative technology and equipment 
which underpins our future. 
Jarvis has always been committed to the 
use of technology and mechanisation of
processes on the railway which have
previously been done essentially by manual
labour. This remains our key competitive
advantage, and we continue to innovate for
the benefit of Network Rail and our other
clients such as Transport Scotland, Metronet,
BAM Rail in Holland, and others. Finally, I am
pleased to report that during the period we
launched our rail freight business – Fastline
Freight – which has shown encouraging
growth since it commenced operations 
and continues to expand.
Financial results
We told the market in the period under
review that the effect of the slow build up 
in rail contract awards would affect our
financial performance. Revenue for the
period from continuing operations was
reduced to £306.7m (2006: £353.8m),
reflecting this downturn in rail contract
awards as well as the exit from construction
activities. The Group operating profit before
non-recurring costs of £3.9m (2006: £10.5m)
was also impacted by reduced Rail and Plant
volumes. Non-recurring costs of £13.4m
(2006: £1.8m) include the termination costs
of exiting the loss making FM contracts 
and the cost of the overhead reduction
programme to date. The loss before taxation
was £14.1m, much reduced from the
previous year (2006: £59.1m). The loss for
the period after accounting for discontinued
operations was £21.7m (2006: £51.3m), in
line with the forecast made at the time of the
Placing and Open Offer. Net debt at the
period end, after accounting for the receipts
of the Placing and Open Offer was £23.6m
(2006: £22.2m).
Dividend
In light of these results the Board does not
recommend the payment of a dividend.
Rail and Plant
As we have previously mentioned the slow
pace of new contract awards by Network 
Rail industry-wide has impacted our business
performance during the period. However, 
the volume of activity is now, as anticipated,
increasing and work has commenced on
We could not continue to deliver the
successful turnaround of this company
without the wholehearted and committed
effort of our people. Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2007 3
contracts worth £65m awarded in January, 
to provide Category C signalling services 
and Phase 2a works at Rugby station – one of
the most significant redevelopments on the
national network. We also won a West Coast
line speed enhancement project between
Summit and Abington, in Scotland. Over the
Christmas period, one of the busiest times on
the railway, our teams north and south of the
border delivered the largest volume of project
work completed by any contractor, and did so
efficiently and safely. We delivered a wide
range of multidisciplinary projects, including
approximately 5,000 composite yards of track
renewals. Integral to our success was close
collaboration with Network Rail on access,
possession times and equipment availability.
Excellent co-ordination by all staff involved
and a great team effort within Jarvis Rail and
Fastline enabled this to happen. This increase
in rail work also has a positive effect on the
Group’s trading performance in the current
period.
Track renewals
In December last year, Network Rail
announced that they did not intend to take
renewals in house. This was welcome news
for us and for the industry as a whole and
allows us to plan our future with greater
certainty. It also removes a cause of
uncertainty among current and potential
investors. Network Rail also stated that in
order to accelerate the pace of productivity
improvements they plan to reduce the
number of track renewals contractors
operating in Integrated Management 
Teams (IMTs) from the current six to four.
Although I should note that neither the 
major enhancement projects on which we
are engaged nor the electrical and signalling
services we provide are within the scope of
this review, we do nonetheless regard this 
as a significant opportunity to demonstrate
our “best in class” credentials. Whilst we
would have a perfectly viable future outside
the successful quartet, we are ensuring 
that we rise to the challenge of proving our
commitment to deliver the best possible
service to our key client. At the time of
writing we are performing well in respect 
of both safety and volume – two critical
performance indicators. This is indicative of 
a Rail and Plant operation which is genuinely
keen to deliver what clients want, when they
want it. The announcement of the successful
four contractors is expected to be made in
August this year and we are focusing our
efforts on being one of them.
Accommodation Services
Thanks to the excellent work of Stuart 
Laird and his team the performance of our
Facilities Management business continues 
to improve in terms of both efficiency and
margin. This division encompasses our joint
venture with Herefordshire County Council,
our contract with Redcar and Cleveland
Borough Council and a number of individual
facilities management agreements in schools
and other similar public buildings generally
inherited from our previous PFI business.
This now represents all that is left of the
original Jarvis Accommodation Services
business and we are continuing to explore
ways in which we can optimise the value
generated in this market. 
Our people 
As ever the Board of Jarvis plc is acutely
aware that we could not continue to deliver
the successful turnaround of this Company
without the wholehearted and committed
effort of our people at every level within 
the business. We are immensely grateful 
to them all. They have all demonstrated real
commitment to the recovery of our fortunes.
It is sadly inevitable that in the process of
restructuring we lose hard working, loyal 
and competent friends and colleagues. 
In this context I would particularly like to
thank Adrian O’Shea, our Group Director of
Strategic Marketing and Planning, who has
left us to join Deloittes, for his significant
contribution to planning our recovery. 
Geoff Mason, our long-serving Group
Company Secretary, has also left us for new
challenges. Geoff has been quite outstanding
in his loyalty, assiduity and sound advice
throughout the whole process of
restructuring and business reconfiguration.
We thank them warmly and wish them both
every success in the future. Mark Akinlade 
is moving from his current role as Head of
Legal Services to assume the role of Group
Company Secretary and General Counsel.
Future prospects
During the coming year we will continue 
to work on the reduction of costs. We will
focus on our core businesses of Rail and
Plant, ensuring that wherever possible 
we offer innovative mechanised solutions 
to hitherto labour intensive rail operations 
and thereby deliver for our clients both
operational improvement and significant cost
saving. We will be making further investment
in our heavy duty specialist equipment,
including upgrading our switch and crossing
tampers and we are pursuing selective
international expansion opportunities. The
level of rail work has risen in recent weeks as
the Rugby project among others comes fully 
on stream and this improved workflow looks
set to continue. As I indicated in my letter
accompanying the recent Placing and Open
Offer, with the support of my Non-Executive
colleagues, to whom I pay tribute for their
continuing wise counsel, and under the firm
leadership of Richard Entwistle and his first
class team, I look forward to a year of
significant progress.
Steven Norris
Executive Chairman
11 June 2007
