 Overview of Activity
The Group set a strategy in 2006 to focus
on the Rail, Plant and Freight businesses,
dispose of unprofitable activities and
reduce overhead costs. I am pleased 
to report that we have made very real
progress in achieving those aims.
– Revenue in Rail is 45 per cent higher than
last year.
– We have exited six facilities management
contracts plus our share in the
Herefordshire Jarvis Services business.
– We have reduced central overheads by
38 per cent.
– We have secured a five year coal haulage
contract in Freight which will substantially
increase revenues and transform that
business.
Health, Safety and Environment
Our Health and Safety performance
continues to be a priority for the business
and we have performed well in the period. 
Our Rail and Plant businesses achieved a
trackside Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) 
of 0.18 accidents per 100,000 hours worked.
This is a 21 per cent improvement on the
equivalent figure at the end of last year and
is within the 0.20 target set by Network
Rail. Of particular note was the outstanding
performance of the Scotland rail team, the
Electrical Projects Group teams based at
Doncaster and Manchester and the Fastline
Plant depots in Darlington, Cardiff, Eastcroft
and Reading all of whom reached more than
1,000 days without incurring a RIDDOR
reportable accident. 
Jarvis Rail’s West Coast A09 project team
was also one of the first teams on this
project to receive Network Rail’s West
Coast Route Modernisation Safety Award.
This was for the safe delivery of Route
Section 3 in Scotland and Route Sections 1,
2, 3 and 7 track works in the North West of
England during 2007-08. 
Following the implementation of a more
rigorous internal safety tour and briefing
process the Accident Frequency Rate 
in Accommodation Services has almost
halved compared to the previous year 
and the division saw a huge reduction 
in the frequency of minor accidents. 
We strive continuously to improve our
environmental performance as an integral
part of the services and facilities we deliver,
because we believe that just a small
improvement can make a difference not
only to society but to the efficiency of the
business. We take any environmental
incident very seriously and can report 
that during the year there was a further 
22 per cent reduction in the total volume
of oil spillages and leaks within the Plant
business compared to the previous year. 
Rail 
The Rail business has performed well
during the period and revenues have
exceeded expectations, particularly in the
second half, as the planned enhancement
work outlined in Network Rail’s Strategic
Business Plan has finally started to come
on line. 
The teams in track renewals and
enhancement projects north and south of
the border have successfully delivered an
increasing workload, the majority of which
has been undertaken during the weekends.
During the year the teams have worked
every one of the 52 weekends, including
Bank Holidays, and sometimes in very
difficult weather conditions. 
During the first half of the year the track
renewals business took part in a much
publicised performance review and
competition initiated by Network Rail to
select four track renewals contractors from
six. The process ran for six months and in
September we were very pleased to be 
4 Jarvis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Chief Executive’s Statement
Our strategy remains very clear and we have
diligently followed the path to achieving 
our goals. The business has come a long 
way during the last year. Jarvis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5
appointed as one of the four successful
contractors. This was due to the dedication,
hard work and experience of all the teams
involved. Our success in this process will
result in additional annualised revenue 
of approximately £17m which will first
materialise in 2008-09. We have secured
significant additional revenues in the
London North East (LNE) region which 
has been extended to include the Midlands
although we have lost some revenue in
Scotland. The transition of the contracts has
now been completed and all employees
affected have been transferred under 
the TUPE regulations. 
Plant (Fastline)
The last twelve months in Plant have been
particularly testing. The demand profile for
heavy plant such as tampers and ballast
regulators and the mix of work in our 
Rail business meant that revenues were
lower than anticipated. However, having
developed a fuller understanding of the
issues in the Plant and Rail businesses, we
were able to react rapidly to improve the
position and the performance in the second
half was much stronger than in the first.
We continue to pursue our strategy of
developing mechanised services which is
aimed at improving output, delivery times
and safety. Within the year our track
renewal system, Slinger
®
, has installed
253,440 sleepers, equating to more 
than 160 kilometres of track, on sites
countrywide for a range of customers.
In the last few weeks a team from Fastline
broke another record at a site at Orston
Lane in Jarvis Rail’s LNE Midlands territory
by placing more than 1,400 yards of
sleepers in just two hours using the track
renewal system, Slinger
®
. This further
demonstrates the capabilities of the track
renewal system, Slinger
®
, and is a good
example of how people, processes and
technology can be brought together to
deliver outstanding results. This is typical 
of what we are aiming to achieve and we
believe this approach will assist Network
Rail in achieving its goals regarding a 7 day
railway.
Freight (Fastline)
The Freight business commenced in 
June 2006 with three refurbished class 
56 locomotives. At the start of this financial
year we ran two container services from
Thamesport to Doncaster and Birmingham
and throughout the year volumes of
container traffic have steadily increased.
We launched a third service in February
2008 to the North West (Barton Dock
Terminal).
The container activity has, as I have
previously stated, until now been
suboptimal. However, the Freight business
is being transformed as we commence 
the contract to haul coal for E.ON secured
earlier in the year. As planned we have now
hauled our first coal wagons for E.ON and
the introduction of Fastline’s five new class
66 locomotives and 94 coal hopper wagons
is staged such that the activity will be fully
operational shortly.
Accommodation Services
Once again the business has made
excellent progress in the year.
All construction contracts are concluded
and as such the exit from construction is
effectively complete. There are still some
residual defects issues to be resolved but
these are fully provided for.
In the Facilities Management business, 
we terminated the 3 significant loss-making
contracts in the North. The transaction
completed in October and included a 
fourth contract for geographical reasons.
The total number of schools involved in 
this transaction was 47. We disposed of 
our 80 per cent share in the Herefordshire
Jarvis Services local authority outsourcing
business in September and more recently
have also terminated two further FM
contracts.
The business is now much smaller and
more manageable with only 25 contracts
of which 23 are long term PFI agreements.
With many of these reaching their first
benchmarking dates the business is
starting to benefit from increased revenues. 
In short, the business is no longer a liability
which is a substantial achievement when
compared to the situation only two years
ago.
Central Overheads
A central plank of our strategy was to
significantly reduce the Group’s overhead
costs. I am pleased to report that we are
ahead of target, reducing our central
overhead costs in the year by £7.7m
(before exceptional items), and we will
have achieved our target run rate for 
central overhead costs of £11m a year. 
In last year’s report I mentioned that we
needed to introduce a more appropriate
management information system to match
our size and shape and assist us with
further cost reductions. We have embarked
on this course and are approximately half
way through the programme.
Overall
Our strategy remains very clear and 
we have diligently followed the path to
achieving our goals. The business has
come a long way during the last year. We
have encountered some obstacles and
worked extremely hard to overcome them.
I am pleased to say we have nonetheless
made significant progress.
Richard Entwistle
Chief Executive
27 May 2008
