 I am pleased to report that the Group has
continued to make encouraging progress
under improving conditions which prevailed
across the whole of the rail industry,
particularly in the second half of the financial
year. As a result of a great deal of effort at
all levels across the divisions, aided by a
stronger demand for our services, the Group
has generated a profit of £11.1m for the year,
our best overall result since 2003. 
It was disappointing that despite these
significant improvements in the business
overall, the financial performance was held
back by problems within our Plant business
which led the Board to issue the trading
update in November 2007. However, during
the second half of the year volumes were
substantially improved in Jarvis Rail and as 
a consequence our Fastline Plant operation
also performed better.
Meanwhile the Group has disposed of 
its share in Herefordshire Jarvis Services
Limited and has also exited a number of other
facilities management contracts, three of
which were significantly loss-making. At the
same time we have continued to reduce our
overhead costs and have initiated a major
overhaul of our information technology and
our property requirements. That exercise
continues and is proceeding as planned.
Our strategy continues to be that of
concentrating on our core competencies 
in rail and associated plant activity, while
building our rail Freight business and looking 
carefully at all the strategic options which 
are available to us in relation to our remaining
Facilities Management business. 
Most pleasingly, as we announced on 
22 May, we have agreed with our lenders,
Bank of Ireland and Bank of America, an
extension of our working capital facilities 
to January 2010 together with a reduction 
in our overall cost of borrowing. We believe
this represents a strong signal by our lenders
of their confidence in our business model,
particularly in current debt market conditions,
and we appreciate their continuing support 
of our strategy.
Financial Results
Our financial performance for the year
reflects a tale of two halves. Our revenues
from continuing operations increased by 
36 per cent in the second half compared to
the first, totalling £321.9m for the full year
(2007: £288.5m). This drove a second half
operating profit, excluding discontinued
operations and exceptional items, of £8.9m
compared to £0.3m in the first half. Total
operating profit of £9.2m compared to
£4.9m in the previous year.
Our results benefited from the receipt of a tax
refund, including accrued interest, of £6.5m
which we announced in February. Net debt
increased to £38.8m (2007: £23.6m) as we
put the equity raised at the previous year end
to good use, by exiting loss-making facilities
management contracts and funding overhead
reductions to improve efficiency, including
investing in new information systems.
Group profit for the year attributable to
equity shareholders was £11.1m (2007:
loss £21.7m).
Rail
Our Rail business is now extremely busy.
The first half performance was affected 
by the late start of a number of large
enhancement contracts for Network Rail 
but these are now virtually all well underway
and continue in the current year. One of our
largest and most complex contracts is at
Rugby where we have been the Principal
Contractor for Network Rail’s largest single
scheme on its West Coast enhancement
programme, undertaking major and
preparatory works every weekend since
January 2007.
2 Jarvis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Chairman’s Statement
The year to the end of March 2008 
was a significant milestone for the 
new Jarvis and we have achieved 
the best result for five years. Jarvis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3
In September we were confirmed as one 
of Network Rail’s four contractors for track
renewals. Throughout the year we have
secured additional enhancement contracts.
This decision by Network Rail shows their
confidence in Jarvis as a leading supplier of
track renewals and is another key step in our
strategy to focus on our core competencies
and to maximise our increased opportunities
following the unveiling of Network Rail’s
programme of rail expansion.
Plant (Fastline)
Plant had a particularly challenging first 
half year and everyone in the business
worked exceptionally hard to maximise 
the opportunities that the upturn in Rail
volumes presented to our Plant business.
Consequently the second half performance
saw much improvement over the first half.
We have sold some of our older and largely
unused heavy plant to Poland and Egypt. Not
only has this released funds which will reduce
debt and assist our plant renewal efforts but it
has allowed us to establish contacts in these
rail markets which along with a number of
others, particularly in Central and Eastern
Europe, are now growing rapidly and are
increasingly looking for the services we 
can provide.
Freight (Fastline)
Our rail Freight operation has launched its
third container route and now operates a
service to the North West. Work on the E.ON
coal haulage contract commenced in May
2008 and marks a significant milestone in 
the continued development of the Freight
business. It is becoming increasingly vital to
the economy and the environment that more
freight is moved across the country by rail.
We continue to see our Freight business 
as capable of further expansion in a market
which is set to grow substantially in the
coming years. 
Accommodation Services
Thanks to the hard work of Stuart Laird 
and his whole team, the Accommodation
Services division is now no longer the source
of a continuing outflow of cash. The business
is now profitable at the contract level and
benchmarking of several other contracts will
also improve profitability. We have disposed
of seven further contracts, including our
share in the Herefordshire Jarvis Services
business, during the period and continue 
to examine all strategic options regarding 
the remainder. 
Our People
I have been enormously impressed by the
quality and assiduity of our loyal colleagues 
in every part of the business. In paying tribute
to them for their exceptional efforts I also
warmly thank Richard Entwistle, our Chief
Executive and John O’Kane, our Group
Finance Director, who has managed our
finances with skill and prudence throughout
the year, for their outstanding contributions
and finally my Non-Executive colleagues on
the Group Board for their unstinting support
and advice. 
Future Prospects
The implementation of our strategy remains
on track. We encountered some setbacks
which meant that we have not progressed as
quickly as we would have liked in the period.
However, I am pleased that with the hard
work of everyone involved we have made
substantial progress. The business is in 
far better shape now than it has been for 
a long time.
It is clear from Network Rail’s recently
updated Strategic Business Plan for April
2009 to April 2014 and the Government’s
‘Delivering a Sustainable Railway’ White
Paper that the government is embarking 
on a course of substantial improvement 
to the UK rail network. The levels of spend
forecast within these documents is at an
unprecedented high and is considerably
greater than the industry has witnessed
before. As a result there are significant
opportunities in the UK rail market and 
the Board believes we are well placed 
to capitalise on these.
The year to the end of March 2008 was a
significant milestone for the new Jarvis and
we have achieved the best result for five
years. This result, our performance to date
and the increasing opportunities within the
UK rail market allow us to look forward to 
the year to come with equal confidence. 
Steven Norris
Executive Chairman
27 May 2008
