 I am pleased to report that the results for 
the year to 31 March 2009 are in line with
management expectations. It is testament 
to the effort put in at all levels across the
business that the Group can report a profit
before tax and exceptional items of £5.1m
(2008: £7.5m). It is particularly pleasing to
note the reduction in net debt which was
£21.5m compared with £38.8m in the
previous year, principally due to a substantial
reduction in accounts receivable shortly
before the year end. 
The financial year was characterised by 
a strong first half performance across the
board, but a second half – particularly the 
last quarter – in which rail volumes declined
because of reductions in track renewals 
and significant delay in replacement
enhancement project work following
completion of the West Coast Route
Modernisation programme. This also had a
knock-on effect on our Plant business which,
as we have already made clear, is likely to
continue to be felt through at least the first
half of the current year.
The announcement by Network Rail which
we reported in January 2009 effectively
delayed work which was planned in 2009-10
until later in Control Period 4 (which runs from
April 2009 to March 2014). Following this
unexpected decision we have moved quickly
to downsize our business at all levels to adapt
to the reduced workload. Working with
Network Rail and other stakeholders we are
putting our plans into effect, albeit at a net
restructuring cost of £8.1m as previously
reported. This is a painful process in which
we are inevitably releasing people who have
been loyal to the company over many years
and who will be a great loss to us. This is 
not a pleasant task for anyone and I take this
opportunity to thank all of those involved for
their understanding, their co-operation and
their unstinting service to the business. 
I wish them every success in the future.
Financial Performance
Principally due to the performance in the
first half, Group revenue increased over the
year to £345.8m (2008: £321.9m). Operating
profit for the period before exceptional items
was £7.7m which is down from £9.2m in the
previous year. This reduction was primarily
as a consequence of the unexpected decline
in rail project volumes in the final quarter
resulting in unrecovered costs, and the
significant decline in freight container
volumes as a result of the worsening 
global economic conditions.
Exceptional items in the period were £11.4m
of which £8.1m relates to restructuring and
redundancy costs. As previously reported
the downturn in freight import volumes
particularly during the second half of last
year meant that our container haulage
operation was no longer viable and we
exited that business at a cost of £2.2m.
In these difficult economic times it is
pleasing to have been able to announce 
on 9 July 2009 that we have extended our
working capital facilities for a further year
until 31 January 2011. We appreciate the
continuing support of our lenders, Bank 
of Ireland and Bank of America.
Rail
The Rail business was exceptionally busy in
the first half with work on the West Coast
Main Line accounting for a significant
proportion of revenues. It is particularly
pleasing to note that all of the associated
projects completed on time, including our
largest and most complex contract at Rugby
which enabled Network Rail to launch its 
new timetable in December 2008.
The London North East Integrated
Management Team track renewals contract
has performed well and has achieved all the
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) necessary
to qualify for a four year extension from 
April 2010.
2 Jarvis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chairman’s Statement
We are ensuring we will be at the forefront 
of the challenge to produce more efficient ways
of working which will ultimately deliver a seven
day railway. Jarvis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 3
Plant (Fastline)
Our Plant business experienced a mixed year.
Performance in On Track Machines (OTM)
and Small Plant was strong and exceeded
expectations. Performance in Specialist Plant
was below expectations whilst our Transport
offering performed poorly due to a lack of
external demand as a result of the economic
downturn and the reduction in rail workload 
in the final quarter.
Freight (Fastline)
Our coal haulage business continues to
perform well and we are now fully focussed
on expanding it. Following a successful 
roll-out and first year performance we
confirmed on 3 June 2009 that we have 
been awarded an extension of the E.ON
contract to December 2015, giving us the
confidence to order additional equipment 
to service the contract.
Accommodation Services
Jarvis Accommodation Services, our facilities
management arm, is a transformed business.
Following the closure of the construction
activity and the disposal of loss-making
contracts the business has continued to
improve and has performed substantially
better than last year. The business has been
rationalised and the team is focussed on
continuing to improve its service and safety
performance whilst reducing costs and
establishing an overhead appropriate 
for the current size of the business.
Board Changes
It is with great regret that I have to report 
that after four years as Chief Executive,
Richard Entwistle has decided to retire with
effect from the Annual General Meeting in
September this year. Richard has performed
resolutely throughout what has been a very
tough period for the Company. Under his
leadership we have worked our way through
some major challenges and the business 
is in better shape than it has been for many
years. In my personal estimation no-one
could have served us better and he leaves 
us with our very best wishes for the future. 
I am however extremely pleased to announce
that Richard will be succeeded as Chief
Executive by Stuart Laird, currently the
Group’s Chief Operating Officer. Stuart 
has already demonstrated considerable
leadership in the successful restructuring 
of our FM operation and I am certain 
he will make an equal success of this 
wider brief.
Professor Brian Mellitt will also be retiring 
following completion of two three year terms
as a Non-Executive Director. Professor Mellitt 
is a former President of the Institution of
Electrical Engineers and is a distinguished
authority on railway engineering issues. His
wise counsel has been an enormous benefit
to the Company.
In line with our objective of downsizing our
group overhead, the role of Chief Operating
Officer will not be replaced and the number 
of Non-Executive Directors will be reduced
from three to two.
Future Prospects
Our strategy continues to be that of
concentrating on the development of 
our Rail, Plant and Freight businesses 
while ensuring that our facilities 
management business continues 
to improve margins.
We believe that the longer term prospects 
for the bulk haulage Freight business are also
very positive. Our underlying service culture
puts us ahead of the field in terms of delivery
and we are confident that this will lead to
wider opportunities. 
In Rail the current economic conditions 
and Network Rail’s decision to delay works
created a difficult trading environment in 
the second half of the year under review 
and this is expected to continue through
2009-10. The prospects beyond that appear
much more promising. Our major client
Network Rail has a huge capital works
programme which we understand is fully
funded until at least 2014 and that funding 
is substantially greater than any prior period.
The Crossrail project, which is currently
valued at £15.9bn, is now progressing and
Network Rail has tabled plans to electrify 
the busiest 4,800 kilometres of the UK 
rail network.
Our strategy included accessing international
markets in a selective way at the appropriate
time once we had stabilised our business and
that task is now largely complete. There are
significant opportunities in the wider global
rail market for contractors with our level 
of expertise.
We are ensuring we will be at the forefront of
the challenge to produce more efficient ways
of working which will ultimately deliver a
seven day railway.
Steven Norris
Executive Chairman
13 July 2009
