 Overview of Activity
This year we have continued to focus on 
the Rail, Plant and Freight businesses as
previously outlined in our Group strategy. 
The underlying business is in far better
condition than it has been for some
considerable time. However, the global
economic downturn and Network Rail’s
decision to delay a significant amount of
enhancement and track renewals work have
inevitably had some impact, particularly in 
the second half of the year. With this in mind
we are pleased to report an operating profit 
of £7.7m, before exceptional items, and the
generation of a positive cash inflow in the
year, which in my view is a testament to the
strength and tenacity of everyone within 
the business.
Health, Safety and Environment
Health and Safety continues to be our
number one priority and we have performed
reasonably well in the year. The Rail and Plant
businesses achieved a combined Accident
Frequency Rate (AFR) of 0.18 accidents 
per 100,000 hours worked. Rail achieved 
a reduction of 10 per cent and Plant a
remarkable 55 per cent improvement in 
their AFRs compared to the previous year. 
As part of Network Rail’s 365 day safety
challenge 12 of our Rail depots were awarded
certificates for completing a full year or more
accident free. The Route Section 12 rail
project team on the West Coast finished the
works on schedule without any reportable
accidents totalling more than 500 days, while
the Jarvis overhead line team working on the
W181 project, based in Crewe, has now
achieved more than 700 days without a
reportable accident.
The Plant business continued to recognise
safety performance with its internal award
scheme with a total of 13 depots surpassing
at least a year without a reportable accident.
The Small Plant and Transport businesses
have worked a highly commendable 761 and
1,462 days respectively without an accident,
whilst the team operating the Medium
Output Ballast Cleaner (MOBC) contract
achieved an outstanding three years 
accident free.
We are committed to reducing the impact 
of our activities, products and services on 
the environment. During the Rugby Station
Remodelling project we achieved a recycling
rate of 96 per cent. The team worked hard to
minimise the amount of waste that had to be
sent to landfill including the recycling of more
than 116,000 tonnes of spoil at a special soil
recycling centre. 
Through a concerted effort and the proactive
approach of the team to raise awareness 
and further improve training we have seen 
a 41 per cent reduction in the number of
environmental incidents relating to oil spills
on our worksites. This was the lowest spill
data since our records began in 1998 and a
real credit to everyone involved considering
the volume of work that has been undertaken
in the year. 
Rail
Overall the Rail business has performed 
well during the year although trading in 
the second half suffered as a result of the
reduced volumes in enhancement work
following the successful completion of
projects on the West Coast. Indeed Network
Rail’s decision to delay works, particularly
track renewals, until later in Control Period 4
(April 2009-March 2014) will mean that
volumes will probably remain at a reduced
level throughout the 2009-10 financial year
but pick up thereafter.
As we have previously stated a key task,
initiated in the final quarter of the year, is 
to reduce headcount in our rail and plant
businesses in recognition of the lower
volumes now anticipated for the coming 
year. This process is well underway and
continues into 2009-10.
Work on the West Coast accounted for 
a significant proportion of enhancement
revenues in the year with all the associated
4 Jarvis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chief Executive’s Statement
We have continued to work
towards strengthening the
underlying business. Jarvis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5
projects completed on time. A considerable
achievement given their scale and
complexity.
The track renewals activity secured as one of
Network Rail’s four preferred track renewals
contractors has performed very well. We
operate under a framework agreement in 
the London North East region. Our client,
Network Rail, operates a series of KPIs to
measure performance under this agreement.
By achieving certain predetermined targets
we qualify for a four year extension to the
contract. It is pleasing to report that we have
achieved the targets.
Our Electrical Projects Group has enjoyed 
a very busy and productive period achieving 
a 45 per cent growth in revenue in the year.
Similarly our Scottish projects business, strc,
has had a very successful year. The award of
the Lugton Loop contract, which will see the
provision of a dynamic loop on the Barrhead-
Kilmarnock line in the West of Scotland, was
a major achievement and the work on the
project is progressing well.
Plant (Fastline)
The Plant businesses have had a mixed 
year with strong performances from 
On Track Machines (OTM) and Small 
Plant, and Specialist Plant and Transport 
not meeting expectations. 
Performance in On Track Machines
exceeded expectations with the teams
playing an integral part in the successful
delivery of many rail project enhancement
works including Rugby. The strong
performance in OTM was in part as a result 
of the contract to operate and maintain
Network Rail’s Multi Purpose Vehicles
(MPVs). The first season of the MPV 
weed-spraying contract has gone well and
the six machines have now commenced 
their second season. 
Small Plant also performed well with
increased turnover primarily due to the higher
volumes of rail activity in the first half and
sustained growth in revenues from the
contract with Metronet. Specialist Plant
completed many projects on behalf of all 
the major contractors and was utilised by our
rail teams on major projects including Airdrie-
Bathgate, Lugton Loop and Rugby. However
performance did not meet expectations.
Transport performed poorly, affected by a
downturn in external demand as result of 
the worsening economic climate and the
reduction in our rail workload in the final
quarter.
We have been working with several
companies in the Middle East, Egypt and
Central and Eastern Europe to assess their on
track machinery requirements. This resulted
in 11 machines being exported in the year
including six which are now being utilised 
on major projects in Saudi Arabia.
The targets set by the Office of Rail
Regulation (ORR) for CP4 mean that Network
Rail is required to find more efficient and cost
effective ways of delivering its planned works
safely. To this end we have developed a new
modular technique and are working closely
with Network Rail on trials which will be
undertaken in the first half of 2009-10.
Freight (Fastline)
The Freight business, whose results are
included in the Plant segment for reporting
purposes, consisted of two quite separate
activities, the coal haulage contract and the
intermodal (container) business.
To service the E.ON coal haulage contract 
we acquired, through operating lease, 
five new class 66 locomotives and 94 coal
hopper wagons. The contract commenced 
in May 2008 with the new equipment being
phased in until we achieved full production 
in November 2008. The phased start up
worked to plan and in general the contract 
is performing well. Indeed E.ON has now
extended the contract to December 2015
which has enabled us to place an order for
additional equipment.
As previously reported the intermodal
business has been quite a different story.
There has been a significant reduction in
container imports as the impact of the
economic downturn has come in to 
full effect. Container volumes through
Thamesport reduced dramatically in the
second half of the year. We therefore
concluded that we should close this 
business and we ceased to carry any
containers from March 2009.
Accommodation Services
Our facilities management business has
improved its performance consistently
throughout the year.
We have disposed of one further contract
during the period and many of the remaining
contracts have now reached their first
benchmarking dates. The benchmarking
process is well underway and provides the
business with the opportunity to further
improve performance. 
We retain 24 contracts of which 22 are 
long-term PFI contracts with relatively stable
and secure revenue streams. As such, the
business for the most part seems isolated
from the effects of the global economic
downturn.
Central Overheads
An important part of our stated strategy has
been the significant reduction of the Group’s
overhead cost. Our central overhead cost in
2008-09 was £10.2m compared to £12.4m in
the prior year. I am pleased to report that our
run rate is now below the strategic target we
set ourselves and this has been achieved in
line with the planned timescales. 
Previously I have reported on the introduction
of a new management information system
that is more appropriate for the size and
shape of the business. This is progressing
well and we expect to have the programme
completed by the end of the 2009-10 
financial year.
Outlook
In the last few years we have overcome
many challenges and as a result of this 
the business and our people have become
adept at responding rapidly to changing
circumstances. The global economic
downturn and Network Rail’s decision 
to delay rail infrastructure works until later 
in the control period are simply additional
challenges that we will deal with. They
impacted on the business in 2008-09 and 
will continue to impact performance in the
2009-10 financial year. Beyond that however
the prospects look much brighter since
Network Rail has a substantial budget for
infrastructure expenditure between 2010-14
and through our accelerated track renewals
process and other initiatives we should be
well positioned to capitalise on these
opportunities.
Richard Entwistle
Chief Executive
13 July 2009
