 08 • Amino Technologies plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 •
Chairman’s report
Chai RMaN’s Repo Rt
Introduction
It has been another year of progress and 
delivery against our stated strategic plans. 
The year ended 30 November 2008 was a 
year of substantial change for the business, 
so I am pleased that the Group has been 
able to report results for the year in line 
with expectations. 
One of the most significant developments 
was the announcement of a new CEO for the 
Group in the form of Andrew Burke. Andrew 
brings a wealth of experience in the Internet 
Protocol TV (IPTV) space and has wasted 
no time in bringing fresh impetus to our 
plans, with strategic developments such 
as the acquisitions of AssetHouse and, 
after the year end, that of the IPTV division 
of Tilgin AB. These acquisitions enhance 
our position in the IPTV market, both 
in our traditional STB market and also 
in building a substantial new presence 
in the market for the software that drives 
IPTV systems.
As such, we enter 2009 in a robust 
position. There can be no doubt that the 
well‑documented downturn in economic 
conditions will present challenges in the 
year ahead but I am confident that, with the 
business we have today, we are well placed 
to strengthen our market position.
Results and finance 
Amino achieved steady growth in profits for 
the year ended 30 November 2008 despite 
the substantial changes made during the 
year. A 19% decrease in shipments caused 
by the transition from MPEG‑2 to MPEG‑4 
product sales, reduced revenue by only 1%
to £31.90m (2007: £32.25m) thanks to the 
increased contribution from our higher priced 
MPEG‑4 HD solutions and a stronger US 
Dollar in the fourth quarter. A further mark 
of our progress was the increasing contribution 
from our licence and support revenues, 
which grew to £2.15m (2007: £1.01m). 
Gross margins improved to 41.9% (2007: 
35.1%) as a result of our continued pressure 
on costs and the benefits from the exchange 
rate movement. Group operating expenses 
increased to £12.07m (2007: £10.63m) in line 
with our strategy to extend our product line. 
Operating profit increased by £0.63m to 
£1.30m (2007: £0.67m) and profit before 
tax increased by £0.75m to £2.16m (£1.41m). 
The Group net cash stood at £14.44m as at 
30 November 2008, down on the prior year 
(2007: £17.07m), having invested £1.42m 
in AssetHouse and a further £1.46m on 
share buy‑backs.
Strategy and competitive market position
Since taking the CEO’s role back in June, 
Andrew has been very clear about his strategic 
plan for this business. In order to grow, we must 
focus on building our offering in three core areas: 
building scale, enhancing our product line and 
moving across the value chain. The two 
acquisitions we have completed since his 
appointment demonstrate strong progress 
in the successful implementation of our strategy. 
AssetHouse gives us greater access to 
the Tier 1 operator market and significantly 
broadens our product offering beyond the 
STB arena where we have made our name. 
Tilgin IPTV also extends our product portfolio 
“  o ur robust balance 
sheet and broad 
market‑leading offering 
give us confidence that 
we are well‑placed to 
deliver on our ambitions. ”
_1_AMI_ar08_front.indd   8 16/02/2009   13:58:36  • Amino Technologies plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 • 09
Chairman’s report
as well as providing greater scale. 
Furthermore, the progress we have made in 
getting our MPEG‑4 HD product to market during 
the past year is a good example of the progress 
we are making in the organic STB business. 
Board
Andrew Burke assumed the role of CEO of 
the Group from his position as Non‑executive 
Director for Amino, a position which he had 
held for the previous 18 months. With his 
extensive knowledge of the IPTV marketplace, 
he is the ideal person to deliver the next 
phase of growth for Amino. Andrew took 
over the reins from Bob Giddy, who served 
as Amino’s CEO for seven years and built 
the Group from a £2m to £32m revenue 
business. I would like to record the Board’s 
thanks to Bob for his contribution and we 
wish him well with his future plans. 
In January 2008, we also announced the 
appointment of Peter Murphy, who replaced 
Olivier Hopkes as a Non‑executive Director. 
Peter Murphy is a Chartered Accountant with 
considerable experience in the technology 
and consumer industries. 
Staff
I would like, once again, to extend thanks on 
behalf of the whole Board to the employees 
of the Amino Group. The progress made 
during the past year has been thanks to their 
skill and dedication. Furthermore, we have 
expanded considerably with two acquisitions 
and it is a tribute to the new and existing 
members of staff that the integration of 
these organisations is being managed 
so quickly and effectively. 
Outlook
These are uncertain times for the global 
economy and we do not assume that we will 
be entirely immune to the downturn. As yet, 
we have not seen any negative impact to our 
business, but we are taking particular care 
to ensure that we are monitoring the markets 
carefully such that we will be in a position 
to react to a downturn in our own business 
outlook, should it occur. 
Our breadth of customer base, with 
738 customers in over 58 countries in the 
last year, gives us good market visibility and 
a high level of sensitivity to our customer and 
end‑user behaviour. In addition, our robust 
balance sheet and broad market‑leading 
offering give us confidence that we are well 
placed to deliver on our ambitions again 
in 2009 and beyond. 
Keith Todd CBE
Non‑executive Chairman
“  assethouse gives us greater 
access to the t ier 1 operator 
market and significantly 
broadens our product offering. ”
_1_AMI_ar08_front.indd   9 16/02/2009   13:58:37
