 10 • Amino Technologies plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 •
Chief Executive Officer’s report
Chief exe Cutive offi CeR’s Repo Rt
Introduction
I am delighted to be able to announce a year 
of solid progress for Amino in my first year‑end 
report to shareholders. Our intention has been 
to build Amino’s presence in its core markets 
and also to enhance its offering both through 
excellence in research and development and 
acquisition where appropriate. 
The results for the year ended 30 November 2008 
demonstrate the progress we are making with 
this plan, but much remains to be done. 
Market
These are interesting times for the IPTV 
industry. Video is being consumed over the 
Internet in new and exciting ways and more 
people are accessing video through their 
computers than ever before. In the UK, 
for example, the launch of the BBC’s iPlayer 
service a little over a year ago has triggered 
a sea change in the way that we watch 
television in this country – with some 41m 
requests in December alone. This trend has 
been replicated elsewhere around the world 
to the extent that 75% of the online population 
is now streaming video over the Internet. 
Whether it’s the Olympics, President 
Obama’s acceptance speech or short clips 
on YouTube, more and more of us are turning 
to our personal computers to watch video. 
This is the forerunner of such video content 
moving directly to the TV.
Advertising revenue is following this trend and 
telecoms operators around the world are very 
aware that doing nothing about online video 
is simply not an option. They face increasing 
competition on all fronts: from the traditional 
cable and satellite service providers as well 
as the new breed of IPTV and Internet video 
offerings (known as Over‑The‑Top). Enabling 
video over the Internet is a key way to help 
these operators to continue to build Average 
Revenue Per User (ARPU), accelerate market 
share and reduce customer churn. 
At the same time, consumers are becoming 
more demanding. They want the content they 
like and they want to view it in different ways,
through different devices. Operators need 
to better understand consumers’ needs and 
buying preferences if they are going to win 
the battle for market share in IPTV.
However, the current IPTV market offers 
interested buyers many different solutions 
from multiple suppliers. The big question for 
operators is how to make the most of these 
options to make sure the IPTV solution they 
choose is complete, open and sustainable. 
Strategy
Our ambition is to help these companies make 
sense of this complex market with a complete 
offering which enables them to deliver 
market‑leading IPTV services to their end 
customers, drawing on the skills and knowledge 
of the best of the ecosystem suppliers.
Followers of the Amino story will be familiar 
with the three pronged strategy that we 
have put in place to enable us to deliver this 
ambition. We want to build scale, to enhance 
our product line and to move across the 
value chain – and we have made positive 
strides in all three areas during the past year. 
Vision
A lot of work has been undertaken internally 
to ensure that our market proposition is 
strengthened and well communicated to 
our customer base. In order to ensure that 
we present a clear and coherent position, 
we have worked hard on developing our brand 
during the year and this is progressing well, 
to the extent that we are now seen as offering 
much more than just STBs to the industry. 
Operational efficiency
From 01 December 2008 we have reorganised 
the business into three business units: 
devices, client software and enterprise 
solutions, to ensure transparency and 
accountability in terms of business 
contribution. Finally, we are driving quality 
and efficiency through seeking ISO 9001 
compliance, complemented by new 
management information systems.
“  o ur ambition is to help 
those companies make 
sense of this complex 
market with a complete 
offering which enables 
them to deliver 
market‑leading iptv 
services to their 
end customers.”
_1_AMI_ar08_front.indd   10 16/02/2009   13:58:39  • Amino Technologies plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 • 11
Chief Executive Officer’s report
Acquisitions
The new divisional structure partly arose as a 
result of the strategically significant acquisition 
of AssetHouse in June last year. AssetHouse 
brings our customers greater visibility of their 
consumers’ viewing behaviours and preferences 
so that targeted content can be delivered. 
We call this offering full‑circle TV. AssetHouse 
has now been fully integrated into the Amino 
Group and in September we saw our first licence 
sale when we sold our AssetHouse solution to 
Sezmi, the US‑based TV 2.0 service provider. 
After the year end, we also completed the 
acquisition of Tilgin IPTV, a Scandinavian 
business which develops and sells a range 
of MPEG‑4 HD STBs, which are highly 
complementary to our own. The acquisition will 
enable us to extend our customer reach, notably 
in the Nordic market. The combination has also 
strengthened our channel relationships with 
leading systems integrators such as Ericsson 
and Nokia Siemens Networks. We have already 
developed an excellent working relationship 
with the Tilgin IPTV team and are now seeing 
encouraging signs of customer traction, 
winning new business in the two months 
since we acquired the business.
Research and development
Our research and development team has 
been busier than ever – not only successfully 
rolling out our new MPEG‑4 HD offering 
to the market, but also many other exciting 
new developments. 
In September, at the annual International 
Broadcasting Conference we announced 
the digital media roadmap for the unique 
Amino‑AssetHouse IPTV solution. 
At the same conference we unveiled 
our new PVR technology for our STBs. 
We also announced collaborations with the 
market leading middleware provider, Minerva, 
obtaining certification for our MPEG‑4 HD and 
PVR to run alongside Minerva’s iTVManager 
Platforms. This means that operators can deploy 
IPTV services with confidence, knowing that 
leading providers of IPTV STBs and middleware
have worked together to deliver fully tested, 
carrier‑class solutions. We also collaborated 
with content management software provider 
Cilutions to promote “out‑of‑the‑box” 
digital signage and IPTV applications 
for enterprise customers.
I was delighted to see our advancements 
recognised by the industry during 2008. 
At the Telco TV conference in November, 
our all‑digital MPEG‑4 HD product won 
“Best Customer Premise Equipment” and 
“Best in Show” awards. The same product 
then collected a prestigious global “Good 
Design” award from the world‑renowned 
Chicago Athenaeum Museum, becoming 
the only UK company to receive the accolade 
for electronics product design.
New customer wins and partnerships
These strides in innovation have also been 
recognised by our customer and partner base 
in 2008. One of the most exciting new business 
wins during the year was the sale of our 
AssetHouse solution offering to Sezmi, since this 
was the first sale that AssetHouse had achieved 
as part of the Amino Group. We had further 
positive news from the US in November, when 
we announced the first deployment of our 
AmiNET
TM
 530 STB in the North American market 
with systems integrator partner LTS. November 
also saw our all digital MPEG‑4 HD technology 
selected by Lumexis Corporation, the provider 
of in‑flight airline entertainment systems, 
to provide 100% digital HD IPTV to the 
passengers of a major global airline. 
We also announced several landmark distribution 
agreements during the latter stages of the year, 
including a global co‑operation agreement with 
Ericsson. A major contract with Estonian national 
operator Elion to deploy our MPEG‑4 HD PVR 
products was also secured. 
In December we reached an important milestone 
with the sale of our two millionth AmiNET™ STB. 
Reaching this milestone was a strong vindication 
of our leading product range, which is now 
deployed in over 80 countries worldwide.
Market prospects
There can be no doubt that these are 
challenging times for the global economy. 
We are unlikely to be immune from this downturn, 
but believe that we are well positioned to 
continue to benefit from the long term prospects 
that this market offers. We have a number of 
factors in our favour – a broad geographic reach, 
a large and loyal customer base, a strong 
balance sheet and healthy gross margins.
We believe that these attributes position us well, 
not only to weather the downturn but also to 
strengthen our market share in the year ahead. 
New markets are emerging, notably in the 
Far East, network capability is improving all the 
time and, perhaps most importantly, end users 
are consuming video online like never before 
and are becoming increasingly demanding 
in the level of service that they require.
We understand the market, we have a highly 
relevant proposition and we are ready for the 
next wave of this constantly evolving sector. 
We also believe that we have the appropriate 
strategy to drive shareholder value in this market. 
Our three pronged strategy will see us: 
•  Drive scale, enabling us to sell more products 
to a broader range of customers; 
•  Expand our product line, to ensure that 
we have the most complete product 
offering to sell to our customers; and
•  Extend across the value chain: thereby 
further increasing the loyalty and longevity 
of our customers. 
We believe that we are set fair to continue 
delivering these plans through the strength 
of our organic offering and through carefully 
selected acquisitions.
Andrew Burke
Chief Executive Officer
“  we understand the market, 
we have a highly relevant 
proposition and we are ready 
for the next wave of this 
constantly evolving sector. ”
_1_AMI_ar08_front.indd   11 16/02/2009   13:58:40
