 page 3
After nearly eight years as a ventur e capital owned
business, Jessops floated on the London Stock
Exchange on 3 November 2004. I joined the
G r oup on 28 October 2004 and this report is
Jessops’ first as a public company and my first
as Chairman.
The flotation was achieved despite dif ficult
stock market conditions and credit must go in
particular to the hard work and skill of Derek Hine and John Crabtree, respectively our CEO
and Finance Dir ector , for their ef forts in
achieving a successful outcome.
Jessops performed well during 2004 and
continued to benefit from its growing high stre e t p r esence and from strong consumer demand
for digital photography products. Sales in 2004
wer e u p b y 11% to £319 million* and EBIT A incr eased by 14% to £19.5 million, continuing
the company’ s r ecord o f delivering sales and
p r ofit gr owth every year since the first
management buy-out in 1996. As a r esult
of the flotation, net debt has been reduced
by nearly £100 million to around £35 million,
a much more sustainable level, which will
enable the business to continue to fund its
g r owth through its own resources.
In addition to my own appointment as Chairman,
we have appointed another new independent
Non-executive Director to the Board : W illiam
Rollason, CEO of Kleeneze plc. W illiam will
chair the Audit Committee. W e will make an
announcement r egarding the appointment of
a further independent Non-executive Dir ector
in due course.
In my short time as Chairman, one thing that
has become very apparent t o m e about Jessops
is the knowledge, passion and commitment of
the people at all levels who work for the company , whether in the stores or behind the scenes.
Delivering first class customer service is central
to the culture o f the company and it is this, in
my view , that is the principal r eason why Jessops
has become the leader in its field. On behalf
of past and present shareholders, I would like
to thank all Jessops staf f for the part they have
played in this.
W e see ourselves at the beginning of a new
and exciting chapter in the Jessops story . Y o u r Board has a clear vision and strategy to build on
the success of the past, to continue to grow the
company and to take advantage of the exciting
g r o w t h f o r ecasts for the digital camera market.
Naturally we will face competitive and other
challenges along the way , but I firmly believe
that Jessops is more than capable of meeting
these and of continuing to deliver growth.
I extend a warm welcome to all our new
shareholders and I look forward t o keeping you
updated on our pro g r ess in the years ahead.
Gavin Simonds
Chairman
Chairman’ s statement
Jessops plc
Annual report and financial
statements 2004
1935-1977
Jessops can be traced back to 1875
when it was a chemist's store, but
it was in 1935 that Frank Jessop
founded 'Jessop of Leicester' as a
photographic retail outlet. In those
early years the business was involved
principally in selling and hiring
16mm cine films.
1960 Frank Jessop's son Alan
joined the business which 
by now had changed 
significantly, trading as 
a specialist photographic
store catering for an
increasingly popular hobby.
Delivering first class customer service is central to the cultur e o f the company and it is this, in my view , that is the principal r e a s o n why Jessops has become the leader in its field.
* All comparisons with 2003 refer to the proforma full
year unaudited profit and loss and cash flow .
