 04
Annual report and financial statements 2005 Jessops plc
Sales were up 2.6% and despite the
difficult retail environment, total like
for like sales were down just 0.4%.
Therefore in comparison to many other
retailers, Jessops performance in
2005 looks relatively solid. 
We started the financial year strongly, with double
digit total sales growth and a 6.4% increase in
like for like sales in the first quarter. This was in
stark contrast to the conditions that faced us in
our second quarter, when the growth in sales of
digital cameras dried up completely in February.
The speed with which the market turned left us
little room to respond in the short term. It also
led us to reconsider our expectations for the
year as a whole. 
Although we have seen some recovery in the
market during the second half, particularly during
the fourth quarter, like for like sales growth did
not return. It has therefore been down to the
actions taken within the business to drive margin
improvements in the second half that have enabled
us to meet our revised profit targets for the year.
Sales increases hard won
Reflecting the downturn in consumer spending,
overall like for like sales for Jessops were down
0.4% and total sales were up 2.6% for the year
ended 30 September 2005.
Year ended 30 Sept 05
% change
Total sales +2.6%
Store like for like sales (0.9)%
Direct like for like sales** +8.9%
Total like for like sales (0.4)%
** Internet, mail order and tele sales
Total camera sales were up 6.9% by value, with
digital cameras accounting for 88.7% of camera
sales by value. Within this we continue to see
strong growth in digital SLR cameras, where our
reputation for unbiased advice, high levels of
customer service and value for money are
particularly important to customers. SLR sales
were up 124% by value for the year, with
Jessops’ share of the SLR section of the digital
camera market remaining above 30%*. 
The market for digital compact cameras, as
predicted, became more competitive during 2005,
as they continued their move towards a mass
market consumer product. The average price of
a compact camera sold in the UK was £158* in
the year to September 2005, 12.2%* below last
year’ s level. Despite unit volume growth of 11.2%*
in the number of digital compact cameras sold 
by Jessops in the year, our value market share
declined slightly in the period to 15.8%* at
September 2005. In response to this, and as part
of our strategy to strengthen our competitive
position at the compact end of the market, we
significantly increased the number of exclusive
product deals we offered in the year. Further
exclusive deals are planned for the coming year
and we believe these will help to support both
our margin and our market share at the more
competitive end of the digital camera market.
Sales of accessories, camcorders and other
photographic hardware were broadly flat year
on year at £137 million, with a 6.5% increase in
camcorder sales offsetting declines in accessories
and other photographic hardware sales. These
declines reflected the generally tougher trading
conditions, but also the continuing shift from
traditional to digital related products, particularly
for accessories. Our increased focus on camcorders
in the period produced a welcome uplift in our
camcorder market share to 12.7%* in September
2005, although the market for camcorders overall
remained tough. 
Chief Executive’s review
I am confident that we enter 2006
well placed to make the best of a
difficult trading environment and
take advantage of any upturn.
*Source: GfK Marketing Services Ltd 05
Annual report and financial statements 2005 Jessops plc
Driving the business
In response to the lower levels of general sales
activity, during the second half we focussed on
driving the business hard, and a number of
initiatives were implemented to improve margins.
Gross margins for the full year improved by
approximately one percentage point compared
to 2004. These initiatives included working more
closely with our suppliers and an increased
focus on exclusive merchandise deals. 
A number of these initiatives were greatly assisted
by the improved management controls and
information flows that resulted from the
investments made in 2004 and 2005 to upgrade
the Group’s warehousing and distribution
arrangements and the continued rollout of 
our new computer system and EPOS software.
Real momentum in digital printing
As previously highlighted, the increased household
penetration of digital cameras is driving significant
change in the Developing & Printing (D&P) market,
as it too moves from film to digital printing. T otal
D&P sales were down 7.6% year on year, but
this masks the significant growth of digital, up
65% by value year on year. 
Jessops has been at the forefront of in-store digital
printing with 179 digital minilabs, capable of both
analogue and digital printing and 70 instant
digital kiosks installed in stores across the country.
Every Jessops store also has at least one digital
kiosk, which allows customers to download
and manipulate their digital images and send
them to the in-store minilabs or wholesale
developers for processing.
Our reputation as a photo specialist and our early
move into digital D&P has helped us secure 
a significant share of this growing market. We
reached a major milestone in D&P in August,
when first time digital print processing exceeded
traditional film processing. Our digital printing
service exceeded two million digital prints per
week by the end of the financial year and in 
the Autumn peak reached a weekly record of 
2.5 million prints in October.
Digital spacemix trial
In response to this growing digital D&P opportunity
and to maximise our own growth potential in this
area, we commenced a new digital spacemix trial
in six Jessops stores in August. Building on the
knowledge gained from our photoexpress stores,
these new trial stores are divided into four clear
zones comprising a digital photo centre, camera
hardware, an extended accessories range and
customer service point. These stores offer an
increased number of digital processing kiosks
(up from two to seven), which are all prominently
located at the front of the store. They also have
a clearly identified member of staff who is a digital
photo “expert” to assist customers in getting the
most out of the new technology. The initial
results were encouraging and the trial was
extended at the end of October to 16 stores.
The enlarged trial continues to be encouraging.
New store openings
Our store opening programme continued
throughout the year, although the pace of new
openings was moderated in the second half to
take account of the more difficult trading
conditions. We ended the financial year with
16 additional stores, bringing the total number
of stores at the end of September 2005 to 278. 
People
Many of our 3,000 colleagues have only known
the buoyant retail conditions that the UK has
enjoyed over the past decade and so the trading
conditions of 2005 were new territory. It is
therefore with some pride that I take this
opportunity to thank all our colleagues, on
behalf of our shareholders, for the way they
responded to these new challenges. Jessops’
reputation stands and falls on the performance
of our people in our stores and across the
company. In 2005 they have yet again been 
a credit to the business.  
As evidence of this, we were delighted once again
to receive Practical Photography Magazine’ s and
Digital Photo Magazine’ s award for “Best Photo
Retailer of the Year” for 2005 in November, the
10th year in succession that we have received
this award. Also in November their readers
voted us “Best Photo Processor of the Year”for
2005, the third year running we have received
this award. Both are recognition of the importance
we place on customer service.
Senior management changes
In addition to the appointment of Robin Whitbread
to the Board as a Non-executive Director in May,
we have also made a number of other
appointments at Board and senior management
level that further strengthen the executive
management team. 
Chris Langley joined Jessops in February 2005
as Chief Operating Officer. He has already made
a significant contribution to the business since
his arrival and I am delighted that he has agreed
to join the Board with effect from 30 November.
At the same time, we also welcome Nick Molyneux
to the Board in his capacity as the newly appointed
Group Company Secretary. 
We ended the financial year with 16 additional
stores, bringing the total number of stores at
the end of September 2005 to 278.
New digital store layout in the trial stores
offers an increased number of digital
processing kiosks, which are all prominently
located at the front of the store
Digital processing has now exceeded film 
for the first time Annual report and financial statements 2005 Jessops plc
Beyond the Board, three further appointments
have been made to the executive management
team. Mike Giddings joined Jessops in April as
Corporate Finance Director, responsible for the
day to day management of the finance function.
Mike is a Chartered Accountant and joined
from a career at KPMG, where he specialised in
retail and consumer markets, initially in audit
and for the past three years in transaction
services. In July, Peter Riordan joined the
company as Property Director from Dixons
Stores Group where he was Group Store
Development Director. Peter has worked in the
retail sector over the past 30 years gaining a vast
amount of experience in both operations and
store proposition development. Finally, Andy
Hannan joined Jessops in August 2005 as Buying
Director from Index, part of the Littlewoods
business, where he was Trading Director. Andy
brings over 15 years of buying and
merchandising experience and has held various
Senior Buying and Merchandising roles at
Argos, Great Universal Stores and Otto UK.
Market fundamentals remain positive
Away from the near term trading challenges 
facing UK retailers, we remain positive about 
the fundamental strength of our business.
In D&P , the switch from analogue to digital
continues apace and forecasters are predicting
that the overall photo printing market will return
to growth in 2006 as digital printing overtakes
traditional analogue film processing. Our early
move into digital D&P , offering the full range of
online, in-store and home printing solutions
has helped us secure a significant share of this
fast growing market. 
Whilst competitive pressure is increasing, 
our strong market position as the UK camera
specialist gives us good leverage with major
camera manufacturers and we are increasingly
able to work with them to offer exclusive
merchandise deals. We are also continuing 
to see strong growth in the digital SLR camera
segment, where the benefits of our specialist
knowledge and our reputation for impartial
advice gives Jessops a competitive advantage. 
Household penetration of digital cameras remains
relatively low, at around 50%*, compared with
83%* for analogue. Moreover , the continued pace
of technological innovation and ongoing price
deflation are driving the camera replacement
cycle, which is significantly more active than
that experienced for analogue cameras. 
06
Outlook and current trading
Trading in the first two months of the current
financial year is in line with expectations. T otal like
for like sales in the eight weeks to 27 November
2005 were down 1.2%, with store like for like
sales down 3.6%. 
We are not anticipating any like for like sales
growth during the first quarter, particularly given
that we are trading against last year’s strong
comparatives. Against this, we expect the first half
will benefit from the gross margin improvements
achieved during the last financial year. 
Although we retain a cautious view of near term
trading, Christmas is not historically as important
for Jessops as it is for some other retailers. We are
encouraged by the continued strong performance
of digital SLR camera sales, by the growth we
have achieved in the digital processing market
and by the performance of our new format stores
trial. Despite there being ten months of our year
ahead of us and greater uncertainties than ever
on the High Street, given the changes that we
have made and will continue to make within our
business, I am confident that we will enter 2006
well placed to make the best of a difficult trading
environment and take advantage of any upturn. 
Derek Hine
Chief Executive
*Source: GfK Marketing Services Ltd
