 03
Annual report and financial statements 2005 Jessops plc
Chairman’s statement
It is pleasing for me and my fellow
Non-executives, to see how the
executive management team 
and indeed everyone within the
business have responded to 
these difficult trading conditions.
We have just completed our first year
as a listed company – and it has proved
to be a challenging one. Nevertheless,
in a turbulent period for both the
British High Street and our market
place, Jessops has produced a set of
results which in the circumstances are
creditable. The month of February saw
a sudden downturn in the market, with
the strong growth in digital camera
sales we had previously enjoyed
ceasing. As a result, we revised our
expectation of profits for the year. As
anticipated, we have seen a partial
recovery in the growth of digital
camera sales and today we are
reporting profits in line with our
revised expectation.
It is pleasing for me and my fellow Non-executives
to see how the executive management team,
and indeed everyone within the business, has
responded to these difficult trading conditions.
The team focussed on driving through margin
improvements in the second half, making the
most of Jessops’ unique market position, strong
supplier relationships and the better quality
operational information that resulted from
earlier investments in improved IT systems.
Sales in 2005 were 2.6% ahead of the previous
year at £327 million and although EBITA of £18.0
million was 8% below last year’s pre-exceptional
figure, 2005 was still the second most profitable
year in Jessops’ history . The Board is recommending
the payment of a final dividend of 1.4 pence per
share, representing a total of 2.1 pence for the
year. If approved, the dividend will be paid on
27 January 2006 to shareholders on the register
on 23 December 2005.
The year also saw the appointment of Robin
Whitbread to the Board as a Non-executive
Director and I am pleased to announce today
the further strengthening of the senior executive
team with the appointment of Chris Langley to
the Board with effect from 30 November 2005.
Chris joined Jessops in February 2005 as Chief
Operating Officer. He brings extensive and
relevant hands-on experience to Jessops, having
worked for 20 years at Dixons Stores Group,
including nearly 4 years as Managing Director
of the Dixons’ fascia stores.   
Jessops heads towards 2006 in good shape,
having responded decisively to the challenges
we have faced and used the experience to
tighten up aspects of our business. Household
penetration levels for digital cameras at around
50%* are still a long way below those achieved
by analogue cameras. Strong growth continues
to be a feature of the digital SLR market, where
we have an unrivalled competitive position. Digital
photo processing, where we have one of the
leading offers in the market, is also showing
rapid growth and is set to overtake analogue
processing in the market within the coming
year. Looking ahead, we are taking a cautious
view of trading conditions going into this
Christmas and believe that it will be the latter
part of next year before we see a return to
positive like for like sales growth. In summary,
despite the caution referred to above, we remain
positive about the fundamental strength of our
business.
Gavin Simonds
Chairman
*Source: GfK Marketing Services Ltd
