 Jessops plc Report & Accounts 2006
05
The strength of Jessops’
unique market position 
has been demonstrated by
our results in 2006. Despite
continuing challenging retail
conditions, sales were up
6.9% in the year and total
like for like sales were up
2.9%. Management actions
ensured that we consistently
delivered against expectations.
The volatile market conditions
were evident in marked
trading swings throughout
the year. Against this
challenging trading
background, we focused 
our efforts on driving gross
margins, whilst at the same
time investing in our stores
and online, to capture and
grow our market share
Sales increases hard won
Year ended 30 Sept 06
% change
Total sales +6.9%
Store like for like sales -1.0%
Direct like for like sales* +68.5%
Total like for like sales +2.9%
*Internet, mail order and tele sales
Digital camera sales were up 16.6%
by value in the year, with the growth
driven by a strong performance from
digital SLR cameras, where our
reputation for unbiased advice, high
levels of customer service and value
for money, are particularly important
to customers. Our share of the overall
digital camera market for the year
ended 30 September 2006 increased
to 18.7% (Sept 2005: 16.8%).
(Source: Gfk Marketing Services Limited.)
Digital SLR sales were up 60% by
value. This segment of the market
was very active in the year, with new
digital SLR launches from Sony and
Samsung and upgraded SLR models
from Canon and Nikon.
The market for digital compact
cameras remained tough, down by
2.5% in the year. Despite this, we
managed to increase our market
share in this segment through a
combination of exclusive deals and
competitive pricing.
Price deflation remained a feature
across the camera hardware market,
although our strength in the SLR
segment of the market provided
some protection. The average price
of a digital camera sold in the UK 
in the year to September 2006 was
£161, 8.4% below last year’s level.
This compares to an average price of
a Jessops camera sold of £218, 5.3%
below last year. 
(Source: Gfk Marketing Services Limited.)
Sales of accessories, camcorders and
other photographic hardware were
flat year on year at £137.5 million,
with an 8% increase in accessories
offsetting declines in camcorders and
other photographic hardware sales.
This reflected our strong focus in 
the year on sales of higher margin
accessories. D&P sales were 2% down
in the year, with a 36% increase in
digital printing almost offsetting
continuing declines in analogue D&P .
Chief Executive’s review
“Digital camera sales were up 16.6% by value in the year, with
the growth driven by a strong performance from digital SLR
cameras, where our reputation for unbiased advice, high levels
of customer service and value for money, are particularly
important to customers.”
Growth
Expertise
Service
Innovation
Range
Multi-channel 06
Chief Executive’s review continued
Driving the business 
A number of initiatives were implemented in
the year, which helped us achieve a further
one percentage point increase in gross
margins for the full year, building on similar
gains achieved in 2005. Looking forward,
further incremental increases in gross
margin will inevitably be harder to achieve.
We continued to work closely with our
suppliers in the year, maintaining our focus
on exclusive merchandise deals. In addition
we achieved our aim of increasing the
proportion of sales from higher margin
accessories and digital printing. This was
supported by the roll-out of our £5 million
Spacemix programme, which greatly
enhances our digital printing services and
strengthens the merchandising of accessories
products. The roll-out was completed in
September, ahead of plan, and we now
have over 240 stores trading under the
Spacemix format.
In May we also announced that we had
created a state of the art in-house digital
photo printing operation in Leicester called
“Jessops Pro Lab”. This new facility supports
the 98 Jessops stores that do not have in-store
minilabs, with a capacity to print up to 2
million prints per week. This move provides
us with increased flexibility in supporting
our online and store-based photo printing
activities and provides Jessops with greater
control over the cost, quality and pricing of
its D&P offer.  
Developing Jessops as a true 
multi-channel retailer
The second half saw a number of further
initiatives in support of our multi-channel
retail strategy, including the relaunch of the
www.jessops.com website in May. Direct
sales increased 68.5% in the year, and
85.6% in the second half, accounting for
circa 10% of sales in the final quarter of
the year.  
Successful launch of Jessops 
Picture House
In addition to hardware sales online, we are
also aiming to take a leading position in the
nascent online printing market. In August
we launched our innovative online digital
printing, photo storage and photo sharing
website, “Jessops Picture House”.  
The initial customer response to Jessops
Picture House has been encouraging, with
more than 300,000 customers signing up
to the site in the first 13 weeks since its
launch. Over four million customer photos
have already been uploaded to the site,
which offers unlimited, free storage. Whilst
it remains very early days, over one million
photos were printed from the site in October,
and over 50% of customers are currently
opting for our innovative “collect@store”
service.
Online photo printing remains at a very
early stage in the UK, but we believe that
we are at the leading edge of this market.
We will be accelerating our investment in
marketing Jessops Picture House in the
coming year. This will drive customer
acquisition and also add further functionality
to the site, such as our new 1 hour
“print@store” service, which we began
rolling out in November.  
New store openings
Our store opening programme continued
throughout the year, with an additional 
15 stores added in the year, including three
stores acquired from That Camera Place
Limited. Since the year end we have opened
3 further stores and also acquired 20 former
Photo Factory stores in Scotland and Northern
Ireland from MacKinnons of Dyce. These
acquisitions and openings take the total
number of Jessops stores to 315 stores.  
People
As we continue to develop our business,
we have also maintained our investment 
in our people, who epitomise the Jessops
difference. I thank all colleagues, on behalf
of shareholders, for the way they responded
to the challenges and opportunities we have
faced during the year. Jessops’ reputation
stands on the performance of our people 
in our stores and throughout the company.  
As evidence of this, earlier this month we
were delighted once again to receive Practical
Photography Magazine and Digital Photo
Magazine’s award for “Best Photo Retailer
of the Year” for 2006, the 11th year in
succession that we have received this award.
Senior management changes
In addition to the appointments of Ian Harris
and Robin Whitbread to the Board, we have
also taken further steps in the year to
strengthen our operational management team.
Peter Riordan, joined Jessops in July 2005
as Property Director and was appointed
Stores Director in May 2006. Peter has
worked in the retail sector for over 30 years,
gaining a vast amount of experience in both
operations and store development. He was
previously Group Store Development Director
at Dixons and Operations Director at Currys.
Ralph Percival joined Jessops in March 2006
as E-Commerce and B2B Director. Over the
last seven years, he was responsible for the
development and management of numerous
e-commerce solutions, including the launch of
new retail websites for Phones4u and Dixons.
Most recently we have appointed Brian
Linnington as Marketing Director. Brian will
join Jessops in January 2007, from Boots,
where he has held a number of senior
positions in the UK and overseas. Most
recently he was Commercial Director –
Boots.com and New Channels.
“The initial customer response to Jessops
Picture House has been encouraging, with
more than 300,000 customers signing up to the
site in the first 13 weeks since its launch." Jessops plc Report & Accounts 2006
07
Market Dynamics
At the compact end of the market, where
competition is at its most intense as digital
compact cameras have now become mass
market products, the market growth seen in
recent years has peaked, and now appears to
be in decline. Price deflation and competition
means that sales growth can only be achieved
through increases in market share. Overall the
digital compact market is maturing, with
around 60% of households now owning a
digital compact camera (against 83% for
analogue compact cameras). The market is
moving towards a replacement cycle and in
2007 it is expected that 62% of digital
compact camera sales will be replacement
cameras (Source: Infotrends).
By contrast, the digital SLR camera market
is still in its growth phase, with new
manufacturers, including Panasonic, Samsung
and Sony, entering the market and existing
suppliers introducing new and improved
product offerings. The household penetration
of digital SLRs is around 2% compared to
10% for analogue SLR cameras. It is this
segment of the market where the benefits
of our specialist knowledge and reputation
for impartial advice gives Jessops a
competitive advantage. We expect the
digital SLR market to continue to show
good growth for 2007 and beyond.
In D&P , the switch from analogue to digital
continues. In the coming year, we expect to
see the growth in digital printing offset the
continuing decline of analogue developing
and for the photo printing market as a
whole to return to growth. We are well
placed to benefit from this trend. Our early
move into digital printing and our continuing
innovation in this area, offering the full range
of online, in store and home printing solutions,
has helped us secure a significant share of
the fast growing digital printing market.
Growth strategy
Our growth strategy aims to capitalise on
these market trends and to use our strong
market position and reputation for impartial
advice, to take advantage of the opportunities
open to us. In addition to pursuing operating
efficiencies, growth will be achieved through
the maturing of recently opened stores,
continuing innovation and investment, and
from targeting growth markets such as
digital SLR and digital printing.
We will continue to build the store portfolio,
through a combination of acquisitions of
existing camera shops and from opening
new sites, and will seek to maximise the
unique multi-channel opportunities open to
us through the full integration of our online
and national store proposition.  
We will also seek to exploit our expertise in
running websites and fulfilment of online
sales across a broader range of consumer
electronics products. To this end, we
recently launched a new website called
www.tecno.co.uk, which offers flat screen
TVs, MP3 players, SatNav systems as well as
a full range of digital cameras, camcorders,
printers and accessories.
The progress of our multi-channel strategy
and our increased in-store marketing
activities, which are designed to encourage
store customers to visit and use our online
services, is making it harder to distinguish
like for like sales between store and online
channels. Accordingly, going forward we
intend only reporting a single like for like
sales figure. This will take effect from the
Christmas trading update in January.
Outlook and current trading
We have delivered profits in line with our
expectations, despite volatile market
conditions throughout the year. This was
achieved by focusing on margin growth and
from increased digital SLR and digital printing
sales. We continue to seek new growth
opportunities and are encouraged by the
initial customer response to our new online
photo printing site, Jessops Picture House.  
Total like for like sales in the eight weeks to
26 November 2006 were up 4.2%, with a
51.4% increase in internet sales offsetting
a 0.3% decline in store like for like sales.
We continue to gain market share in all our
key categories and, although Christmas is
less important to Jessops than it is to many
other retailers, we are taking a cautious view
of the near term outlook in our markets,
particularly by comparison with the very
strong Christmas we enjoyed last year. It
remains very early in our financial year, but
subject to the market softness easing, as
referred to in our 29th September 2006
trading statement, we are well positioned
to deliver in line with our expectations.
Chris Langley
Chief Executive
We expect to see the growth in digital printing
offset the continuing decline of analogue
developing and for the photo printing market
as a whole to return to growth
Jessops' specialist knowledge and reputation for impartial advice
gives a competetive advantage when selling Digital SLR cameras
Growth
Expertise
Service
Innovation
Range
Multi-channel Jessops plc Report & Accounts 2006
08
Jessops continued to operate in a dynamic and
fast moving market, and has capitalised on its
market leading position due to the expertise
of its staff throughout the company, and the
development of closer relationships with its
suppliers.
One of Jessops’ hallmarks is its 
reputation for photographic expertise,
which sets the Company apart from 
its competitors
