 JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
18
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
WE ARE PROUD TO WELCOME 
OUR NEW SHAREHOLDERS WITH A YEAR  
OF PROFITABLE GROWTH
PETER HARF
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
19
2014 has been a major year in the development of Jimmy Choo. We 
have continued to grow the business, with revenue increasing 12.2% 
at constant currency through the creation of new exciting collections, 
opening new stores and driving like for like sales growth through our 
robust business. In addition to growing the business, we launched 
Jimmy Choo PLC on the London Stock Exchange in October 2014. 
We welcome our new shareholders to our first annual report as a 
public company and look forward to partnering with you in the 
years to come.
HISTORY & STRENGTHS
Jimmy Choo is a 21
st
 century accessories brand with shoes at its 
heart, with a focus on glamour, style authority, craftsmanship, 
luxury positioning and a distinctive iconic brand. 
Jimmy Choo’s journey started in 1996 from an entrepreneurial start-up 
partnership, where a combination of the shoes of Mr. Jimmy Choo, 
OBE and the drive and inspiration of Tamara Mellon, OBE, created 
a luxury footwear phenomenon. They opened the first store in 1996, 
in Motcomb Street in London SW1, and sold 3,000 pairs of the 
first ready-to-wear shoe collection, with Mr. Jimmy Choo’s niece, 
Sandra Choi, serving as the company’s Creative Director, a role  
she still holds today. 
In 1998, Jimmy Choo opened its first boutique in New York City, 
followed by Los Angeles. Jimmy Choo became an innovator in 
Hollywood, being the first accessory brand to offer award nominees 
and presenters customised shoes for their red carpet appearances. 
The brand’s presence on the red carpet helped to create a global 
following and to make it a favoured brand among celebrities, 
supermodels and royalty.
Throughout its history, Jimmy Choo has been identified by the media 
as a key element of the fashion zeitgeist, with prominence in films 
and television such as “Sex and the City” in 1999, “The Devil Wears 
Prada” in 2006 and the Korean show “My Love from the Star” 
in 2013.
There followed a sustained period of strong retail expansion 
supported by private equity ownership. In 2011, when JAB Luxury 
GmbH (“JAB Luxury”) acquired Jimmy Choo, we had a vision of a 
long term continued growth strategy built upon the amazing brand 
and people in the business, underpinned by significant new 
investment in systems and processes. 
JAB Luxury recognised Jimmy Choo as a world class brand, 
operating in an attractive market, with a strong design, 
merchandising, production and distribution platform, supported  
by a 360 degree communication programme. 
Luxury shoes are an incredibly complex category, with a range of 
functions (pumps, boots, sandals, wedges, sneakers) each at various 
heel heights, each in a number of colours and materials and each in 
a range of sizes. This complexity means that in order to grow beyond 
a certain point, systems and processes need to be sophisticated and 
scalable, which requires significant investment behind the scenes. 
Taking Jimmy Choo out of private equity hands in 2011 provided the 
environment for that core investment to commence.
In order to position Jimmy Choo for the next stage of development, 
significant investment has been undertaken to restructure and 
strengthen the business, including talent management and in 
systems and logistics. Jimmy Choo has been able to finance this 
investment through inherently strong cash flow and improvements 
in underlying margin. Whilst these investments have resulted in an 
increase in operating costs and reduced reported operating margin 
in recent years, we believe that they have provided the business 
with the requisite scale and operating leverage to generate significant 
profit growth into the future.
This investment phase is nearing completion and we look forward 
to the new systems backbone not only supporting long term growth 
in what is a complex category, but also enabling us to move to an 
omnichannel model in the near term. In addition, the regional offices 
in New York, Tokyo, Hong Kong, Beijing, Paris and Milan provide the 
distribution network with the support and drive to grow the global 
footprint profitably.
IPO
JAB Luxury have invested in the Jimmy Choo business for the long 
term. While JAB Luxury intend to remain majority shareholders of the 
business for the foreseeable future, we believe that bringing outside 
investors in and exposing the company to public scrutiny ensures the 
best governance to drive long term growth and helps to promote the 
brand and incentivise the team. 
OPENING THE LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE 22 OCTOBER 2014
Continuing the journey of the company, we therefore launched 
Jimmy Choo PLC on the London Stock Exchange on 22 October 2014 
(“Admission”). It was a time of turmoil in the markets, with the FTSE 
100 falling by 9% over the marketing period. However, we were 
looking for long term partners in the future of Jimmy Choo, and the 
investors we met recognised that the fundamentals of the business 
behind the Jimmy Choo brand are strong. As a result, we priced the 
IPO within the original price range, despite the fluctuations of the 
wider market. We are very pleased with the calibre of the investors 
who have joined us in owning Jimmy Choo PLC.  JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
20
OVERVIEW OF RESULTS
We are very pleased with the strong performance of the business in 
2014. Revenue increased by 12.2% on a constant currency basis and 
6.4% on a reported basis. Our well invested business demonstrated 
its operational gearing potential, with adjusted EBITDA growing by 
7.2% to £50.2m and adjusted EBT growing by 19.8% to £28.3m. 
BOARD COMPOSITION
In order to support our CEO Pierre Denis, our CFO Jonathan Sinclair 
and the senior management team in running the day to day 
operations of the company, we have brought together an international 
Board of Directors with extensive experience of running public 
companies in a global environment. Between us, we have experience 
of luxury goods, retail and consumer goods from small cap to global 
large cap companies. We believe that by using that wealth of 
experience to help monitor and guide the path of the management 
of the company, we will ensure that the growth Jimmy Choo has 
produced to date will continue for the foreseeable future. On 
5 March 2015, Judith Sprieser informed me that she had decided 
to step down from the Board for personal reasons unrelated to the 
Company. We are grateful to Judith for the input and support she 
has provided to the Company since the IPO in October. We are sad 
to see her leave the Board, but understand her reasons for making 
this decision and we fully support her. Please see page 46 for an 
introduction to the high calibre individuals who have joined Pierre, 
Jonathan and me on the Board.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
CONTINUED
GOVERNANCE
We believe that good corporate governance is the key to good 
businesses continuing to grow profitably for the long term. 
The Board is mindful of the need to protect and promote the interests 
of the Company’s new minority investors. We believe the Board and 
its Committees, with the addition of the independent Non-Executive 
Directors (Gianluca Brozzetti, David Poulter and Bob Singer) provide 
the appropriate corporate governance balance in light of the interests 
of both the majority shareholder and new minority shareholders.  
The Audit and Risk Committee consists solely of independent 
directors and the Board has also established a Conflicts Committee 
to help manage the relationship between the Company and our 
majority shareholder.
OUTLOOK
We continue to pursue our overall growth strategy of focussing on 
the design of high quality collections which resonate with our clients 
and growth in the retail business through like for like growth and 
opening additional stores with a focus on Asia ex-Japan and Japan. 
We are rolling out 10 to 15 new DOS, with a focus on China, and 
renovating 10 to 15 of our existing portfolio of DOS in the new store 
concept. Japan and Asia ex-Japan continue to grow well, while 
EMEA remains impacted by a reduction in Russian travellers. We 
continue to see outperformance by stores in the new store concept.
We remain focused on executing our growth strategy and pursuing 
growth without compromising our brand or its luxury position, 
despite the more challenging macroeconomic environment.
