 Chief Executive’s statement
2007 marked a year of significant strategic
and operational progress for JKX
10 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual report and accounts 2007
Average realisations for oil in the period
rose by 11 per cent to $60.37 per barrel
($54.31 per barrel). All oil was sold into
the domestic market at a price which
tracks international prices but at an
effective discount.
Average realisations for gas in the period
rose by 40 per cent to $3.95 per Mcf
($2.83 per Mcf), with all gas being sold
into the domestic market. Gas
realisations have again increased from
the beginning of 2008 to in excess of
$5.00 per Mcf, as a result of the year-end
negotiations between Russia and
Ukraine. We believe that gas prices could
rise again during 2008, with a further
increase anticipated at the beginning 
of 2009. PPC continued to sell
approximately 60 per cent of its gas
production to Shell throughout the period.
The ongoing drilling programme on 
our Poltava fields comprised both
development and appraisal in and around
our four production licences throughout
the reporting period. Most encouragingly,
50 per cent of our new wells in the period
targeted new productive structures to the
west and east of the Ignatovskoye and
Molchanovskoye fields respectively.
This year’s achievements have served to
underline the specialist knowledge, focus
and expertise that JKX has successfully
acquired during its years of activity in its
core region. The Company has increased
production from its core Ukrainian
production licences, acquired a second
operational hub in southern Russia, and
broadened its exploration portfolio in
eastern/central Europe and Turkey. The
Russian acquisition resulted in 36.5
million barrels of oil equivalent of proven
plus probable reserves being added to
the Group reserves, representing
approximately 50 per cent of the Group
reserves as at 31 December 2007.
Ukraine
The Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary,
Poltava Petroleum Company (‘PPC’),
continues as the largest domestic non-
state producer of oil and gas, supplying
approximately 3 per cent of Ukraine’s oil
and gas production during the period.
Average daily oil production increased by
13 per cent to 5,539 bopd (4,889 bopd).
Average daily gas production rose by 
13 per cent to 42.3 MMcfd (37.5 MMcfd),
the maximum level possible under the
limitations of the current gas export
capacity from our Poltava fields. 
Dr Paul Davies
Chief Executive Annual report and accounts 2007 JKX Oil & Gas plc 11
Ignatovskoye Field
During the period, three new deviated
development wells (I127, I128, and I129)
were drilled and successfully brought 
on-stream. In addition, two new vertical
appraisal wells (I130, I131) were drilled
as part of the programme of evaluation
of the extent of the Tournasian carbonate
extension to the north of the
Molchanovskoye Field; both of these
wells are awaiting acid stimulation. 
A third deviated appraisal well (I133) 
was completed shortly after the end 
of the period and brought on-stream.
Molchanovskoye Field
During the period, two new vertical
development wells (M157, M158) and one
new vertical development well (M205)
were drilled and/or completed in the
northern and southern areas of the field
respectively and successfully brought on-
stream. In addition, two vertical and one
deviated appraisal wells (M160, M161
and M162) confirmed production in the
Tournasian carbonate extension in an
additional fault block to the north of 
the Molchanovskoye field and were
successfully brought on-stream. 
Novo-Nikolaevskoye Field
No additional drilling or workover activity
was undertaken on the field during the
period, although negotiations continue
with the state oil and gas company on
acquiring a shut-in well drilled in the
1980s on our licence area. The main
focus of activity in 2008 will be more
detailed examination of the Visean
sandstone channel sands along with 
a study of the potential in both the
underlying Tournasian and Devonian
reservoirs.
Rudenkovskoye Field
The second new Well R102 was drilled 
in the southern area of the field and
successfully tied back to the central
production facilities in the second
quarter of the period. An extensive data
set from the logging and coring
programme was gathered and is being
used in the ongoing evaluation of well
stimulation techniques to be utilised for
the full field development. In the third
quarter of the period, an initial hydraulic
fracture stimulation test was undertaken
on one of the gas-bearing sandstone
intervals of Well R101, the first new well
drilled in the northern part of the field 
in 2005. Although the results were
inconclusive, extended pressure tests 
on the well are feeding into the ongoing
fracture studies. We intend to apply a
range of fracturing techniques to all
three of the Rudenkovskoye wells (R12,
R101 and R102) during the third quarter
of this year .
Production facilities at Poltava have 
been upgraded and expanded during the
period; major items include a new low
pressure manifold, a new inlet separator
and upgraded flare controls. Delivery 
of additional facilities and construction
associated with the tie-in to the 56-inch
Soyuz pipeline has been ongoing
throughout the reporting period
including: execution of the hot tap into
the Soyuz line; construction of the spur
line to the PPC facilities; and delivery and
installation of both the additional dew
point control plant and the additional
2,220 hp compressor . Delays have been
experienced with the delivery of the
bespoke metering skid, due in part to 
the extended approval cycle of its final
specification by the regulatory authorities
and the lead times being experienced for
sophisticated oilfield control equipment.
Delivery of the metering skid is currently
scheduled for the second quarter of the
year, with tie-in and commissioning due
for completion in the third quarter .
Delivery of gas via the Soyuz tie-in will
remove any capacity constraint to gas
production from our Poltava licences.
The Company is committed to developing
and expanding its exploration and
appraisal licence portfolio in Ukraine.
Zaplavskoye
The first exploration Well Z1 on the
95.7sq.km Zaplavskoye exploration
licence was drilled in 2006 and
reprocessing and reinterpretation of the
92km of 2D seismic data, incorporating
the well data, showed the well was
drilled off-structure. An additional two
lines totalling 16km of 2D seismic were
shot in the first quarter of the period, 
and the processed data has been
assimilated into the data set to
determine the location for the second
exploration well which is planned to spud
in the second quarter of 2008. In addition,
a second lead, has been identified in the
western part of the exploration licence
and, depending on further seismic
reprocessing and evaluation, could lead
to an exploration well later this year .
MEASURING OUR PERFORMANCE USING KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
SEE THE FINANCIAL REVIEW (PAGES 30 AND 31) FOR MORE DETAILS
Production volumes
+
13%
2007: 12,579 (boepd)
2006: 11,146 (boepd)
Capital expenditure
+
241%
2007: $147.9m
2006: $43.4m
Production costs
+
5%
2007: $4.01/boe
2006: $3.83/boe
Ukrainian gas
realisations
+
40%
2007: $3.95/Mcf
2006: $2.83/Mcf
Return on average
capital employed
-
30%
2007: 29.5%
2006: 42.4%
Reserves movement
+
72%
2007: +31.9 MMboe
2006: -4.1 MMboe 12 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual report and accounts 2007
as a dry hole. Evaluation of the licences
continues with exploration now focusing
on gas-bearing structures in the coastal
Tertiary Basin and the definition of
prospects north west of the Well R1
location. Additional 3D seismic
acquisition is scheduled for the third
quarter of 2008 to supplement the
existing 2D seismic data over the Tertiary
Basin area. 
Turkey
The Company is participating in the three
Karakilise onshore exploration licences,
covering a total of 1,230sq.km in south-
eastern Turkey (JKX: 30 per cent). During
the period, 60km of 2D seismic was
acquired and processed over two leads 
in the southern part of the licence area.
An exploration well on one of the
prospects is scheduled for the second
quarter of 2008.
The Company participated in three
onshore exploration licences in Thrace
(JKX: 25 per cent) comprising an area 
of 980 sq km. During the period, an
additional 110km of 2D seismic was
acquired over a lead previously identified
by the Operator . Following processing
and interpretation, the Company
concluded that the prospect has limited
potential and decided to relinquish its
interest in the licences. 
The Company announced on  
10 January 2008 that it had farmed into
two exploration licences comprising
590sq.km in the South East Bismil area
of South East Turkey (JKX: 20 per cent).
The licences are situated immediately
workovers of shut-in wells; specification
and sourcing of replacement gas
treatment facilities; and implementation
of a corporate development plan for our
wholly-owned Russian subsidiary,
Yuzhgazenergie (‘YGE’). I anticipate our
Russian staff to grow from 20 personnel
today to approximately 90 personnel by
the end of the year . YGE remains on
schedule to return the field to production
in 2008. 
Georgia
Anadarko is the operator of the
consortium holding the 8,900sq.km
exploration licence, offshore Georgia
(JKX: 4 per cent net profit interest).
Following extensive seismic and
geological data acquisition, a preferred
location for the first exploration well has
been identified. This commitment well 
is dependent on Anadarko attracting
additional farm-in partners, following 
the recent withdrawal of BP and Chevron
from the consortium, and securing a
suitable drilling rig. We remain
committed to this frontier project but,
recognising the passage of time, we have
decided to make a full provision for all
our capitalised costs relating to the
project to date.
Bulgaria 
The Company operates the onshore
exploration permits, B Golitza and B1
Golitza (JKX: 50 per cent) covering a total
of 3,499sq.km. During the reporting
period, Well R1 was drilled to a depth 
of 4,522m on the B Golitza permit and
subsequently plugged and abandoned 
Elizavetovskoye
The Company continues to seek an
agreement with the state oil and gas
company to acquire the existing
infrastructure in order to re-commence
production. No exploration work will be
undertaken on the 70sq.km licence until
such an agreement has been achieved.
Chervonoyarske East
The Company was awarded this
5.5sq.km licence in 2006, following the
first open auction of licences in Ukraine.
The Company purchased and interpreted
110km of 2D seismic and data from the
six wells drilled on the licence to date,
and has shot and processed 12km of
additional 2D seismic during the period.
The Company is currently acquiring
42sq.km of 3D seismic data to aid
identification of prospects for possible
drilling in 2009.
Russia
In the fourth quarter of the period, the
Company completed its $50m acquisition
of the Koshekhablskoye Gas Field,
located in the southern Russian republic
of Adygea. The Company has added
approximately 36 million boe to its
booked 2P reserves, based on the
estimates of the independent
consultants, Miller and Lents. Since
acquisition, the Company has been
undertaking the necessary work required
to bring the Field back on-stream. Major
activities completed to date include:
initiation of a 105sq.km seismic
programme; specification and award of
required field refurbishment contracts;
award of the rig contract for up to 10
This year’s achievements have served 
to underline the specialist knowledge, 
focus and expertise that JKX has
successfully acquired during its years 
of activity in its core region Annual report and accounts 2007 JKX Oil & Gas plc 13
enhance further the productivity we enjoy
at our core production hub.
The recommencement of gas production
at our recently acquired Russian
Koshekhablskoye Field will establish a
second production hub for the Company
and is a key milestone for 2008. Plant
replacement and well workovers are the
major field activities throughout the year,
with a new deeper well to appraise the
underlying productive horizon scheduled
for the turn of the year . I anticipate that
gas realisations in Russia will follow the
trend set in Ukraine with gas prices
increasing annually at a rate of 15 per
cent to 25 per cent until a European
netback price is reached in 2011-2012.
Most encouragingly, we are continuing 
to receive expressions of interest from
additional industrial gas users in the
region to purchase our forthcoming
production. 
Acquisition of additional development
assets to increase our reserve base
remains our priority with Ukraine and
Russia being the two main areas of
evaluation. Exploration activity is
increasing in the current period as we
broaden our portfolio, and I am hopeful
that we will be able to add further farm-
ins in eastern/central Europe during the
coming months. 
The focus and commitment of the staff 
of the Company remain the key factor in
achieving our goals and delivering value
to our shareholders, and I am confident
that this will continue through 2008.
at the end of the reporting period that
Newfield Exploration has acquired the
interests of the previous operator,
Rosetta Energy, and is considering an
exploration well through the James Lime
(the primary target in the Unit) to the
underlying Travis Peak and Pettet
formations. The Company has for some
time indicated its preference for a vertical
well to be drilled to test all three
formations. The Company is evaluating
the merits of the new operator’s
proposals before moving forward with
disposal options.
Outlook
The Company is embarking on its busiest
year to date with significant development
drilling programmes scheduled for
Ukraine and Russia plus exploration
programmes in Ukraine, Hungary,
Bulgaria and Turkey.
The continuing development of our four
Poltava production licences will include
further appraisal and exploitation of the
encouraging Tournasian Carbonate field
extensions we are delineating over our
licence areas. We expect gas production
to increase in the second half of the year
with unrestricted gas delivery via the
Soyuz trunkline. The fracturing
programme scheduled for the third
quarter on our deep Rudenkovskoye
Field is targeted at identifying a well
stimulation technique which can facilitate
a full and cost-effective development of
the field. I am also hopeful that the wells
planned in the second half of the year on
our Zaplavskoye exploration licence will
south of the largest oilfield in Turkey, Bati
Raman. Currently, an additional 120km
of 2D seismic is being acquired over the
licences and drilling has commenced on
Well Koyunlu 2, an appraisal to the oil
discovery Well Koyunlu 1 drilled in 2006.
Hungary
The Company announced at the end of
the reporting period that it had farmed
into two exploration licences, Hernád I
and Hernád II, covering a total of
5,420sq.km in the north Pannonian Basin
(JKX: 50 per cent). A 350sq.km 3D
seismic acquisition programme has
recently been completed over the
licences, and is currently being
processed and interpreted to identify 
the first drilling prospect for spudding 
in the third quarter of this year .
Italy
In line with our stated strategy of
disposing of non-core assets the
Company agreed the sale of its Italian
portfolio of exploration assets, including
the Aglavizza gas discovery, to
Mediterranean Oil & Gas plc on 
22 February 2008. The agreed
consideration of two million euros 
was received at contract completion 
on 27 February 2008.
USA
The Company has been investigating
options for disposing of its interest in the
11,290-acre West Huxley (Deep) Unit
project in east Texas (JKX: 34.3 per cent),
its only remaining asset in the USA.
However, the Company was informed 
The Company is embarking on its busiest
year to date with significant development
drilling programmes scheduled for Ukraine
and Russia plus exploration programmes 
in Ukraine, Hungary, Bulgaria and Turkey
