 “ John Menzies is a strong, profitable company, and both 
its divisions are leaders within their respective markets. 
Menzies Aviation has excellent growth potential and 
Menzies Distribution remains highly cash generative.”  
WILLIAM THOMSON, CHAIRMAN
Chairman’s Statement
Results
2006 has been a year of contrast for the Group. 
Menzies Aviation delivered another year of record growth, 
delivering a third consecutive year of 25% or more growth 
in profits. This market leading performance is a credit to 
the excellent team we have at Aviation. The division is on a 
strong growth curve and I look forward to further substantial 
progress through organic and acquisitive expansion.
Menzies Distribution has experienced tough trading conditions 
which impacted on profitability. This division however remains 
a strong cash generative business, and management actions 
in repositioning and adapting to a rapidly changing market 
continue.
At Group level, underlying profit before taxation decreased  
by 9%.
Dividend
To reflect the confidence your Board has in the future 
performance of the Group, your Board is recommending  
a final dividend of 14.4p per share, making a full year dividend  
of 20.5p – an increase of 5%.
Board
Patrick Macdonald is to step down from his role as Chief 
Executive with effect from 20 March. Over the last four years 
he has transformed and developed the Company to a point 
where the new management teams and operating disciplines 
which he has put in place are now sufficiently robust to 
implement successfully the key strategic goals set by the 
Group Board for the divisions. Today’s reorganisation marks 
a further logical step in the development of the Company. 
I would sincerely like to thank Patrick for his significant 
contribution in making the business what it is today. I am 
delighted he will remain available to us until the end of April.  
I wish him all continued success in the future.
 
As a result of this change Craig Smyth, Managing Director, 
Menzies Aviation, and Ellis Watson, Managing Director,  
Menzies Distribution, join the Board. They will continue to  
be responsible for running their respective divisions each  
with their own Operating Boards. Paul Dollman, Group Finance 
Director, assumes responsibility for the Corporate Head Office 
and will sit on both Operating Boards. Paul, Craig and Ellis will 
all report to me.
As I previewed in my statement last year, Octavia Morley 
joined your Board in April and after 11 years’ valuable service, 
Michael Walker left your Board in May. An evaluation of the 
Board, which was extended to its committees, was carried  
out last year and, based on the results of that process, I remain 
confident that the composition of the Board is appropriately 
balanced and structured to meet the ambitions and challenges 
of our business.
Staff
The performance of the Group during the last year reflects  
the resilience and strength of our staff. It is their dedication 
and commitment that stands this Group apart from its peers, 
and I wish to express my gratitude to them.
Pension Fund
I am pleased to report that the Pension Fund was returned to 
surplus at the year end. Paul Dollman, Group Finance Director, 
who is chairman of the Trustees, will be stepping down from 
this role at the end of the month, handing over to Professor 
Ian Percy who is independent. This reflects best practice in 
Pension Fund governance.
John M. Menzies
We were all greatly saddened when our Life President  
and former Chairman died last month. He chaired the 
Company for 46 years until 1997 and was a pivotal figure  
in transforming the way the Company was run, particularly  
the news distribution operations. He provided leadership  
and vision, and played an instrumental role in determining  
the strategic direction of the Group. He will be sorely missed 
by all those who knew and worked for him. 
2 John Menzies plc Annual Report 2006 3 John Menzies plc Annual Report 2006 2 John Menzies plc Annual Report 2006 3 John Menzies plc Annual Report 2006
Statements Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
