 delivering against strategy
Chief Executive’s Review
Overview
During 2006 a strong performance from Menzies Aviation 
was insufficient to offset tough market conditions in Menzies 
Distribution.
Menzies Aviation delivered strong profit growth for the third 
consecutive year, despite experiencing softer markets in cargo 
in the second half of the year. This market leading set of results 
justifies the Board’s increasing confidence in this business.  
We continued to build the business in 2006 through a balanced 
mix of organic and acquisitive growth. Across the network we 
won a net 28 new contracts. We completed 8 acquisitions in 
North America, Europe and Australia. We also announced a very 
exciting joint venture which will start operations at two airports 
in India in 2008.
Despite taking significant and rapid action to reduce costs,  
trading at Menzies Distribution was adversely affected by 
changing consumer habits and preferences. We believe these 
changes are structural and partly driven by the proliferation 
of new digital choices available to consumers. These include 
broadband internet, MP3 players, multi-channel TV, electronic 
games, etc. We have seen the most impact on monthly magazines 
and partworks. We are investing in new technology to raise 
productivity, including automated magazine packing and returns 
processing systems. We have also strengthened our clear No2 
position in the sector with two acquisitions.
Strategy
I am pleased that the table below shows how we have delivered 
against our stated objectives for 2006. A further review of each 
division and their developments can be found on pages 6 to 20. 
“ Over the last four years and through a period of significant 
market change, John Menzies has become a much more 
dynamic and robust business. Each division’s strategy is 
clear and their leadership teams are now ready to take full 
responsibility for operational delivery.” 
PATRICK MACDONALD, CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Menzies Aviation
> Focus on consistency of service delivery
> Maintain strong financial disciplines
> Keep costs lean
> Integrate new businesses
>  Standardise and simplify operating 
procedures across our network
> Expand through a mixture of organic 
growth and acquisitions
Menzies Distribution
> Reposition the business
> Remodel the cost base
> Focus on customer service
> Innovate/automate
> Grow market share
Our 3-step strategy
1. Get the Basics Right
2. Build Scaleable 
Businesses
3. Grow from Strength
What we set out to do in 2006:
4 John Menzies plc Annual Report 2006 5 John Menzies plc Annual Report 2006 4 John Menzies plc Annual Report 2006 5 John Menzies plc Annual Report 2006
Statements Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information We have been following our three-step strategy for some time: 
1 Get the Basics Right; 2 Build Scaleable Businesses; 3 Grow from 
Strength.
Menzies Aviation has clearly benefited from this strategy and 
is now building confidently from strength as it targets further 
acquisitive and organic growth.
Menzies Distribution remains a strong, cash generative business 
and is repositioning and adapting to the structural changes in  
its market, principally by focusing relentlessly on the cost base. 
I am confident they are both well positioned to prosper.
People
Our business relies 365 days a year on our people, who work 
through all hours and conditions to deliver a world class service 
to our customers. I would like to thank them for their innovation, 
integrity and commitment. This is what differentiates us from  
our competitors. Without them, we have no business.
To support our dedicated staff, we have developed and rolled 
out a new Leadership Training programme across both operating 
divisions. The programme has successfully raised leadership 
performance levels and has been well received within the 
businesses.
The two strong divisional leadership teams are key to the future 
success of the Group. Craig Smyth and Ellis Watson are actively 
developing their management teams to ensure we continue to 
build the businesses and adapt to changing market conditions  
– to be leaders rather than followers of market change. In 
particular, we have strengthened the management structure  
in Menzies Aviation to support the continuing high growth  
rates the business anticipates delivering in the future.
Looking ahead
I remain very positive about the growth prospects for  
Menzies Aviation as it focuses on growing quality earnings.  
We have developed a business model differentiated from  
the competition with a series of innovative products we  
are uniquely capable of delivering across our network.
In a market that continues to be tough, I am confident that 
the measures being implemented to reduce cost and improve 
productivity at a much higher rate in Menzies Distribution will 
make it leaner and fitter for the future. 
We announced, just before the year end, our all-Ireland  
joint venture with Eason & Son Limited, conditional on certain 
regulatory and other approvals. This exciting venture will put  
us in a position to work with publishers and retailers alike to 
extend our service offering. 
Over the last four years and through a period of significant 
market change, John Menzies has become a much more dynamic 
and robust business. Menzies Aviation is delivering on its high 
growth potential internationally while Menzies Distribution is 
repositioning and adapting to a rapidly changing market with 
speed and energy. I am proud of the achievements of the strong 
teams we have built at both divisions. Each division’s strategy 
is clear and their leadership teams are now ready to take full 
responsibility for operational delivery. 
PATRICK MACDONALD 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
19 March 2007
What we achieved in 2006:
Menzies Distribution
• Two acquisitions and conditional all-Ireland joint 
venture reinforces our No2 position 
• Driving the cost base hard:  
> Shop floor productivity
  – automated returns processing systems
  –  automated magazine packing systems
  –  continuous process improvement
 > Centralisation of functions
  –  regional contact centres
  –  central magazine allocation: i-Mag
  –  central newspaper allocation: i-News
 > Branch network reconfigurations
Menzies Aviation
• Continuing strong growth path
 > Aircraft turns up 25%
 > Cargo tonnes up 41%
• Profit growth split 45% / 55% between organic  
and acquisition
 > 28 net contract wins
 > 8 acquisitions
•  Underlying USA business exits 2006 in profit
• Additional infrastructure to support future growth
4 John Menzies plc Annual Report 2006 5 John Menzies plc Annual Report 2006 4 John Menzies plc Annual Report 2006 5 John Menzies plc Annual Report 2006
Statements Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
