 6 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008
Energy Supporting Energy
Operational review
Chairman’s statement
Sir Ian Wood, 
Chairman
2008 was a very successful year for 
Wood Group with record revenue of 
$5.2bn and record EBITA
 1
 of $441m. 
This excellent performance means 
that over the last four years we have 
delivered compound annual growth 
in adjusted diluted earnings per 
share
 4
 in excess of 40%.
 2008 2007 
2008 Group performance $m $m Change
Revenue 5,243.1 4,432.7 +18%
EBITA
 1
 441.0 318.4 +39%
EBITA margin 8.4% 7.2% 
Profit before tax 384.1 259.9 +48%
Basic EPS 49.6c 33.0c +50%
Adjusted diluted EPS
 4
 52.1c 36.9c +41%
Total dividend 9.0c 7.0c +29%
ROCE
 2
 33.3% 28.3% 
Reflecting the strength of our performance and continuing confidence 
in our long term growth, we are proposing a final dividend of 6.2c, 
taking the total dividend for the year to 9.0c, up 29% on last year.
Markets
We used the strength of our oil & gas and power markets in 2008 to 
enhance our differentiation and further develop and internationalise 
our activities, and won a number of important new contracts. 
Engineering & Production Facilities strengthened its position in both 
its traditional markets, and in some new international markets. Well 
Support continued to increase revenue and margins in a competitive 
marketplace, develop new products and services, and increase the 
efficiency of its manufacturing operations. Gas Turbine Services 
continued its programme of developing the technology and engineering 
of new spare parts for the overhaul and repair of additional engine 
types, thus enhancing our differentiation and developing our market 
positions in both the oil & gas and power markets.
The world recession, volatile financial markets and exchange 
rates, and much lower oil and gas prices are expected to lead to 
a 10-15% reduction in global E&P expenditure and a decrease in 
service company activity. This, along with the impact of the stronger 
For more detail about  
our financial performance  
turn to page 26.
For more detail about 
corporate governance  
turn to page 45.
For footnotes 
turn to page 29. 7
At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements
;
 go online at www.woodgroup.com/annualreport2008
dollar on our non US dollar earning stream, will affect our shorter 
term reported performance to some extent. However, there are 
opportunities and we are working with a number of customers on 
cost reduction and efficiency improvements, areas in which Wood 
Group has great experience and strength. Larger customers appear 
to be continuing to make major project investment decisions based 
on the strongly prevailing view that oil and gas prices will increase 
significantly in the medium term. Operators around the world are 
finding it difficult to grow their reserves with ageing reservoirs, 
high depletion rates and the growing complexity and cost of new 
developments. These reserves are often located in countries with 
higher levels of political and economic uncertainty and we have 
a long track record of managing operations in such countries. 
The International Energy Agency “IEA” is forecasting $8 trillion 
in oil & gas exploration investment between now and 2030. A 
significant proportion of this will be in large deepwater and subsea 
developments, areas in which Wood Group is a world leader. We 
also believe we can use our growing knowledge and expertise 
in both carbon capture and storage and renewables to help our 
customers meet their growing environmental and climate change 
objectives.
Overall, around 55% of our business
 (a)
 is linked to supporting 
production and operations which is less sensitive to lower oil prices.
The current market provides opportunities as well as challenges. 
Through innovative and creative solutions, we are working with our 
customers to meet the challenge of much lower commodity prices
in the short term and, at the same time, will be very well placed to 
support the significant investment that will be applied as commodity 
prices strengthen. 
Strategy
Our strategy is to achieve long term sustainable growth by adding 
value to our customers’ operations with world leading, highly 
differentiated products and services. Our strategy has four strands 
which are:
•	 	 to	maintain	a	good	balance	between	field	developments	and	
later cycle production support
•	 	 to	gr ow	and	maintain	market	leading	positions	based	on	
differentiated know-how
•	 	 to	develop	longer	term	customer	r elationships,	often	thr ough	
performance based contracts, and
•	 	 to	extend	our	services	and	br oaden	our	inter national	pr esence.
We believe this strategy positions us well through the oil & gas cycle, 
with good defensive qualities well balanced with opportunities for 
growth. Our strong balance sheet position and recently extended
bank facilities will enable us to continue to make value enhancing 
acquisitions and organic investments in order to emerge stronger 
from the downturn.
People
We continue to make real progress in our objective of being an 
employer of choice for quality people, providing them with a 
challenging and interesting work environment in which no one will be 
hurt. We are a global company with a global employment strategy 
and policies, and our focus is on employing, encouraging, training, 
developing and supporting the best quality people, working in a safe 
environment, around the world.
I believe we significantly achieve this and would like to thank, on 
behalf of the Board, all our people whose skills, commitment and 
enthusiasm continue to drive our success and give us confidence 
in our future. I would also like to extend my personal thanks to my 
Board, and to Allister Langlands and his executive management 
team who have led the company very successfully in 2008 and 
have the skills, commitment and expertise to ensure we continue to 
perform in the current more challenging environment.
Outlook
Wood Group’s strong order book, our focus on production support, 
our good international spread and our high quality customer base 
all stand us in good stead in these more challenging markets. The 
current market provides opportunities as well as challenges and we 
are focused on delivering innovative and creative solutions to achieve 
cost reduction and efficiency improvements for our customers. 
Longer term, we believe the fundamentals for oil & gas services 
remain strong and we are well positioned to capitalise on our high 
differentiation and market leading positions to deliver good growth. 
Sir Ian Wood, Chairman
2 March 2009
(a)  The split of Wood Group revenue between customers’ capital expenditure (capex) and operating expenditure (opex) is based on management estimates and assumptions. 
The estimates are subject to variations from year to year dependent on activity in the periods.
