 8 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008
Energy Supporting Energy
Operational review 
Chief Executive’s report
Allister Langlands, 
Chief Executive
Revenue ($m)
2008 5,243
2007 4,433
2006 3,469
2005 2,762
2004 2,288
EBITA ($m) 
2008 441
2007 318
2006 215
2005 149
2004 117
 2008 2007 
2008 Divisional performance $m $m Change 
Revenue 5,243.1 4,432.7 +18%
Engineering & Production Facilities 3,244.7 2,582.8 +26%
Well Support 1,008.6 862.1 +17%
Gas Turbine Services 956.6 955.7 –
EBITA 441.0 318.4 +39%
Engineering & Production Facilities 316.1 214.5 +47%
Well Support 105.0 87.1 +21%
Gas Turbine Services 72.6 64.3 +13%
EBITA margin 8.4% 7.2%
Engineering & Production Facilities 9.7% 8.3% 
Well Support 10.4% 10.1% 
Gas Turbine Services 7.6% 6.7% 
Operating and financial highlights
Review of 2008
Group revenue grew 18% to $5.2bn, reflecting strong growth in 
Engineering & Production Facilities and Well Support, and relatively 
flat revenue in Gas Turbine Services. The strong growth in Engineering 
& Production Facilities was driven by increased activity across all 
sectors in Engineering, and by the continuing strong demand for our 
Production Facilities activities in the North Sea and in international 
markets. In Well Support, activity levels were good through 2008 in all 
three businesses and we continued to grow our international revenue 
outside the US. In Gas Turbine Services, a good increase in underlying 
revenue was offset by the divestment of non core businesses and 
lower revenue from fast track power package contracts. 
For more detail about 
our financial performance 
turn to pages 26-29.
Revenue
up 18%
EBITA
up 39% 9
At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements
;
 go online at www.woodgroup.com/annualreport2008
Group EBITA margin increased from 7.2% to 8.4%, reflecting 
the strengthening of margins in all divisions. The Engineering & 
Production Facilities margin increased due to improvements in the 
underlying margins for both Engineering and for Production Facilities 
activities, combined with the mix benefit of our higher margin 
Engineering activities now representing 48% (2007: 44%) of division 
revenue. In Well Support we saw a continuing increase in overall 
margin, benefiting from revenue growth and our investment in higher 
margin products and services. In Gas Turbine Services our ongoing 
initiatives to increase the amount of work performed under longer 
term contracts, changes in the mix towards higher margin activities, 
the divestment of non core activities and a focus on cost reduction 
and efficiency all contributed to the improvement in margin. 
People
2008 has seen a tremendous year of growth in the number of people 
working at Wood Group. Total headcount increased by 17% to 
28,800 people worldwide. We remain focused on striving to become 
the employer of choice across all of our businesses. We recognise 
that attracting, developing, and retaining the best talent enables us 
to provide world class services and products to our customers and 
growth for our shareholders.
Safety 
In 2008 we saw a 15% improvement in the frequency of all injuries to 
3.3 cases per million man hours. This was achieved through a series of  
pro-active initiatives with a focus on leading performance indicators. 
Our lost work case frequency “LWCF” also improved by 27% to 
1.1 cases per million man hours, reflecting a decrease in severity 
of injuries. We are committed to achieving the highest standards of 
safety in everything that we do and around the world we have won 
recognition for the performance that we have achieved. Continuous 
improvement is a key measure of our success and is given the highest 
priority. We believe we will be successful when no one is hurt.
Looking into 2009
Engineering & Production Facilities has entered 2009 with a strong 
order book. In Engineering, we believe that our differentiated 
capabilities, order book and prospects, market leading positions and 
high quality customer base help position us well. Production Facilities 
activity is largely driven by customers’ operating expenditure, with 
around 70% of revenue based on longer term contracts. A number 
of our new contracts began in the last quarter of 2008 and this will 
provide a good contribution in 2009. In Well Support we have already 
taken decisive management action in light of the challenging outlook 
in the US gas market. International activities outside the US are over 
50% of Well Support’s revenue, which will also provide support in 
2009. Gas Turbine Services continues to be the leading independent 
maintenance provider for industrial gas turbines, with around 85% of 
revenue derived from operational support activity, and we anticipate 
a resilient aftermarket performance in 2009. 
2009 will be a more challenging year for our industry due to the 
weakness in oil and gas prices and global economies. In light of 
this, we remain flexible, carefully controlling costs and managing our 
working capital. We have a strong balance sheet, have extended our 
bank facilities to 2012 and are well positioned to take advantage of 
opportunities for acquisitions and organic investment which are likely 
to emerge in this more challenging market.
Our 2009 reported earnings are likely to be impacted by the strength 
of the US dollar reducing our reported non US dollar earnings 
stream.  However, in overall terms, the majority of the Group’s profit 
is in US dollars, therefore this has a net benefit to shareholders in our 
currency of listing.
We remain confident in the longer term fundamentals of our key 
markets and are continuing to execute our long term growth strategy.
Allister Langlands, Chief Executive
2 March 2009
For more detail about 
our divisional performance 
turn to pages 20-25.
For more detail about  
our CSR initiatives 
turn to pages 32-39.
Revenue by division
 Engineering & Production Facilities
 Well Support
 Gas Turbine Services
Revenue by region
 North America
 Europe
 Middle East & Africa
 Asia Pacific
 Central & South America 10 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008
Energy Supporting Energy
Operational review 
Wood Group in action
Our strategy is to achieve long term 
sustainable growth by adding value to our 
customers’ operations with world-leading, 
highly differentiated products and services.
Our strategy has four strands:
–    to maintain a good balance between field 
developments and later cycle production support
–    to grow and maintain market leading 
positions, based on differentiated know how
–    to develop longer term customer 
relationships, often through performance 
based contracts
–    to extend our services and broaden our 
international presence
 
For examples of how we are putting our 
strategy into action around the world see  
pages 12 to 19.    11
At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements
;
 go online at www.woodgroup.com/annualreport2008
Sevan Piranema
Wood Group personnel inspect the inside 
of the Piranema FPSO ballast tanks prior to 
tow-out. 12 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008
Energy Supporting Energy
Balance
Maintaining a good 
balance between field 
development…
BP’s Valhall redevelopment project,  
offshore Norway (CAD illustration)
We are working on the redevelopment of the 
Valhall field for BP Norge AS. Our services 
include FEED, detailed design, procurement 
and project management services for the new 
combined production and hotel platform. The 
scope extends over the full project duration from 
the start of FEED to project completion, including 
construction management assistance. 
The redevelopment will extend field life by 
approximately 40 years, until 2050.
Illustration courtesy of BP .
We have a broad service offering across a range of 
complex activities within the oil & gas and power 
generation industries. This means we can provide  
our customers with life of field support from the initial 
concept definition, through the development phase, into 
production support and decommissioning.
Recent field development projects include:
 ConocoPhillips EkoFisk, North Sea
Delivering front end engineering design “FEED” services for the Greater 
Ekofisk Area Development, a 40-slot wellhead platform located in 
approximately 70-75 metres of water in the Norwegian sector of the 
North Sea. We will also provide design services for the subsea flow 
lines and pipelines across the Greater Ekofisk Area. 
 Modec Jubilee FPSO, Ghana
Providing the topsides design for Modec for the floating production 
storage and offloading vessel “FPSO” for the Jubilee field development 
offshore Ghana, West Africa. The project is targeting first production  
in the second half of 2010.
 Shell Perdido, Gulf of Mexico
Conceptual engineering, detailed design, procurement assistance and 
fabrication support for what will be the deepest spar platform in the 
world. This regional drilling and production hub will be installed in ultra 
deepwater slightly greater than 7,800 feet in the Gulf of Mexico.
g rEatEr Eko f isk a rEa d EvElopmEnt projEct , n orWay 13
At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements
St Fergus Gas Terminal, Scotland
We are the market leader in operations 
& maintenance support for UK onshore 
facilities and now work on nine terminals, 
including the St Fergus Gas Terminal.
Recent production support work includes:
 North Sea operations support
We are the leading provider of operations support services in the UK 
North Sea. We have been providing services to the region’s leading 
operators for over 20 years. Current contracts include Apache, BP , 
Shell, Total, Talisman and Hess. In 2008 we continued to expand our 
market share with newer entrants such as TAQA and Ithaca.  
Middle East production support
We have recently been awarded two significant contracts for the 
supply of downhole electric submersible pumping “ESP” equipment 
and services in the Middle East with two key national oil companies 
“NOCs”, the Kuwait Oil Company “KOC” and Petroleum Development 
Oman “PDO”. In Kuwait we monitor and maintain equipment for KOC 
to ensure timely well intervention. In Oman we have one of the largest 
in country ESP infrastructures and this allows us to provide PDO with 
fast equipment delivery, minimising operational downtime.  
…and later cycle production support
r Epair & ovErhaul at Esp facility , o klahoma c ity , ok 14 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008
Energy Supporting Energy
Leading positions
Growing and maintaining 
market leading positions
We focus on achieving market leadership and 
differentiation in areas where we believe we have, 
or can build, competitive advantage. We have a track 
record of building market leading positions both 
organically and through acquisitions.
Market leading positions across the Group include:
 
Deepwater topsides
We have a market leading position in the conceptual engineering, 
FEED and detailed engineering, project and construction management 
“EPCM” of deepwater topsides around the world. We have worked on 
over 30% of deepwater topsides installed worldwide.
Subsea and pipeline engineering
We have a reputation built up over 30 years of world class 
performance and, with the acquisition of MCS during the year, we have 
consolidated our Subsea & Pipelines Technology group’s position as 
the world’s leading solutions independent engineering & management 
services provider for subsea systems. We have around 1,500 specialist 
personnel situated in 14 permanent offices. We have strong technical 
excellence and a reputation for efficient project delivery in subsea 
and pipeline engineering. We are technology leaders in several areas, 
such as high pressure/high temperature “HP/HT”, cryogenic pipelines, 
remote sensing, pipeline stabilisation, flow assurance, risers & integrity 
management and have experience in both greenfield and brownfield 
arenas.
Downstream
We have a market leading position in EPCM services in the US, 
operational enhancements and control system upgrades for refineries, 
including clean fuel modifications.
Surface valves and wellheads
We have a market leading position in the US for surface valves and 
wellheads. We have developed very responsive distribution networks in 
the newer shale gas areas and have bundled services together to meet 
our customers’ needs. 
Gas turbine operations & maintenance
We are the world’s leading independent provider of integrated 
maintenance solutions (such as for the Al-Rusail power plant in the 
Sultanate of Oman), and repair & overhaul services for industrial 
gas turbines. We are also a leader in power station operations & 
maintenance.
Semi-submersible – a 
particular type of floating 
vessel that is supported 
primarily on large pontoon-
like structures submerged 
below the sea surface
Moorings – Means of connecting the 
anchor on the seafloor to a large ship 
or a floating structure at the surface
SPAR – Deep draft surface piercing 
cylinder type of floater, particularly 
well adapted to deepwater, which 
accommodates drilling, top tensioned 
risers and dry completions
a l -r usail poWEr plant , s ultanatE of o man WEllhEad opErations , c lEBurnE , tX 15
At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements
Hybrid Riser – A riser which 
typically combines a lower 
rigid riser section with an 
upper flexible pipe section
Floating production storage 
& off loading vessel “FPSO” 
– a converted or custom-
built vessel, employed to 
process oil & gas and for 
temporary storage of the oil 
prior to shipment
Floating tanker 
off loading buoy
Wells – Drilled into the 
seabed through oil or 
gas bearing deposits, 
the well bore is lined 
with a cemented steel 
pipe, which projects 
above the seabed 
forming a wellhead
Typical subsea tie back
This diagram shows a typical subsea 
tie back. We are the world’s leading 
solutions independent engineering 
and management services provider for 
subsea systems.
Flexible Riser – A flexible pipe 
or assembly of flexible pipes 
used to transfer produced 
fluids from the seabed to the 
surface facilities or to transfer 
injection fluids, control fluids 
or lift gas from the surface 
facilities and the seabed
Umbilical – Provides a means of 
robust connection between the 
topside control facilities and the 
subsea control elements. The 
umbilical comprises hydraulic & 
electrical control lines which are 
used in the operation, maintenance 
and control of subsea installations 
and equipments
Manifold – Manifolds are seafloor 
subsea arrangements consisting 
of valves, piping and controls 
which are used to collect fluids 
from subsea wells, combine 
several flows into one, and reroute 
the flow to a processing facility on 
the platform 16 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008
Energy Supporting Energy
Relationships
Developing longer term 
relationships with customers
We are focused on developing strong relationships 
with customers by providing cost effective and reliable 
project delivery. Our success in this area is demonstrated 
by the long term relationships we have with major 
international operators, national oil companies, 
independents and power companies throughout the 
world.
Strong relationships we have developed with customers 
include:
Global subsea agreement   
We have been supporting BP in key subsea regions around the world 
for over 30 years in designing the most up to date subsea facilities to 
meet the increasing demands for more efficient energy production.  
We have entered into a five year global agreement to provide 
engineering and project management services for their offshore  
subsea development projects.
Equatorial Guinea operations support
We have provided operations, maintenance, project management, 
construction, logistics and training services in Equatorial Guinea 
since 2003 when we were awarded our first contract with Marathon. 
Since establishing our presence in the country we have expanded to 
provide a broad range of services to ExxonMobil, Hess and Equatorial 
Guinea LNG. We now provide services to eleven offshore platforms,  17
At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements
ESP service facility, Abu Dhabi
A Wood Group employee along with a 
representative from our customer Total 
inspect a surface pumping system at 
the test facility in Abu Dhabi prior to 
delivery to Yemen.
two FPSO’s, two onshore support bases, two training facilities, one 
LPG plant, one LNG plant and have over 600 personnel in Equatorial 
Guinea. 
 
East Texas Electric Cooperative “ETEC”
We are currently working with East Texas Electric Cooperative “ETEC” 
on a $36 million contract to construct and commission the San Jacinto 
Generating Facility, which will include two General Electric Frame 7EA 
gas turbine generators. ETEC comprises ten electric cooperatives in 
the East Texas region providing low cost, reliable power to more than 
300,000 consumers.
The San Jacinto plant will be constructed on a fast track basis to help 
ETEC meet increased electricity demands within its service territory, 
commencing in 2009. We believe our strong experience with this type 
of plant design and equipment was the key differentiator that led ETEC 
to select us as its preferred partner in this project. We have also been 
awarded a six year operations & maintenance contract covering full 
care, custody & control.
o pErations support , Equatorial g uinEa East t EXas ElEctric c oopErativE , t EXas 18 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008
Energy Supporting Energy
Service & reach
Extending our services 
and broadening our international presence
Our business success comes from serving our 
customers well. This means recognising their needs 
and delivering new and innovative solutions. We have a 
strong focus on both organic growth and acquisitions 
to expand our service and product lines and provide 
access to new customers and new geographic markets.
We have extended our services and broadened our international 
presence to include:
 
Masdar Carbon Capture & Storage, Abu Dhabi, UAE 
We are providing services for Masdar’s Carbon Capture and Storage 
“CCS” project in the United Arab Emirates. The project constitutes 
the first phase in a series of facilities capturing CO 2 emissions from 
industrial and power generation plants in Abu Dhabi.
The CO 2 will be transported in a pipeline network and injected in Abu 
Dhabi’s oil reservoirs for enhanced oil recovery. The objective of the 
CCS network is to reduce Abu Dhabi’s carbon footprint and replace 
the natural gas currently re-injected into oil reservoirs. The first phase 
will seek to capture five million tons of CO 2 gas per year by the end 
of 2013 from three emission sources: a gas fired power plant, an 
aluminium smelter and a steel mill. 
UK duty holderships, North Sea
We are providing operations support services for the changing United 
Kingdom Continental Shelf “UKCS” licensee landscape including 
many newer entrants. We have built up our capability and now have 
a significant position in UKCS duty holder services. Our duty holder 
installations now include the Beatrice offshore complex and wind farm, 
the onshore terminal at Nigg, Venture’s Hummingbird FPSO and the 
four TAQA platforms – Tern, Eider, North Cormorant and Cormorant 
Alpha.
 
v EnturE h ummingBird n orth s Ea duty holdEr opEration o pEarations & maintEnancE sErvicEs , Bp t rinidad 19
At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements
Clear Lake, Iowa, USA
We have extended our power station 
operations & maintenance services 
across North America.
Operations & maintenance support, Trinidad
We are providing offshore and onshore maintenance & reliability, 
modifications engineering and field execution and materials management 
services for BP’s production facilities in Trinidad. We have over 400 
personnel in country under a five year, reimbursable, performance based 
contract.
Deepwater Logging, Gulf of Mexico, USA
We have extended our traditional land and Gulf of Mexico shelf based 
logging services to provide high pressure/high temperature pipe recovery 
services in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. We have successfully built a 
market leading position in this area. 
Gas Turbine Asset Managment Solutions “AMS”, the Netherlands
Total has contracted us for the provision of gas turbine and compressor 
equipment support services for its offshore assets. The agreement means 
we will provide asset management support services for all critical rotating 
equipment, including Siemens and Solar turbines, and gas compression 
units.
