 12
John Wood Group PLC  Annual Report 2012
Claire Buchanan, Production Operator 
Improver for Wood Group PSN. On our 
duty holder services contract for the 
Hummingbird FPSO, we are focused on 
meeting our customers’ needs for safe 
asset operation. 
Wood Group PSN 
2012
$m
2011
$m Change
Revenue 3,690.7 3,012.7 22.5%
EBITA 205.0 153.2 33.8%
EBITA margin 5.6% 5.1% 0.5pts
People 29,200 26,200 11%
In Wood Group PSN, revenue and EBITA 
growth of 23% and 34% respectively, 
include a full 12 month contribution from the 
PSN business acquired in April 2011. 
Headcount increased by 11% from 26,200 to 
29,200 due to increases in Oman, the North 
Sea and the USA, together with the impact 
of acquisitions. 
We saw a good performance in the North 
Sea, which accounted for around 40% of 
Wood Group PSN revenue.  Activity on our 
operations & maintenance and brownﬁeld 
engineering scopes on longer-term 
contracts, including with BP , Shell, Talisman 
and TAQA, contributed to growth in 2012. 
During the year we negotiated contract 
renewals and extensions worth over 
$800 million. We were also awarded the 
operations & maintenance contract for 
Premier Oil’s Balmoral FPV, the brownﬁeld 
engineering work on Total’s Franklin ﬁeld 
and the hook-up and commissioning scope 
for Nexen’s Golden Eagle project.
The Americas accounted for around 30% 
of revenue. Growth in North America was 
strong, particularly in the US shale regions 
where we saw good organic growth and 
beneﬁted towards the end of the year from 
the Duval and Mitchell’s acquisitions in 
the oil-rich Eagle Ford and Bakken regions 
respectively. Our offshore activities in the 
Gulf of Mexico also performed well. 
International markets, outside the North 
Sea and the Americas, represent around 
30% of revenue. In Oman, the loss for 
the year was around $20 million. Despite 
this poor performance, we made good 
progress on a number of matters and are 
increasingly conﬁdent of seeing a signiﬁcant 
improvement in 2013, and that 2014 will 
be proﬁtable. Elsewhere in the Middle East 
we announced our ﬁrst contract award in 
Kurdistan with DNO for engineering and 
support services on the Tawke ﬁeld. In 
Australia, we were awarded signiﬁcant 
new maintenance work in Melbourne and 
continue to work for clients including Exxon 
Mobil and Woodside. In Africa, we remain 
active in Chad, Equatorial Guinea, Nigeria 
and Angola. In the Caspian, we are providing 
facilities engineering and commissioning 
services to customers including 
Tengizchevroil and Agip KCO.
Outlook
Wood Group PSN is well placed to deliver 
a strong performance in 2013. In 2012 
we signed new contracts and renewals 
worth around $3.6 billion in revenue, which 
positions us well for the future. Looking 
ahead, the North Sea should beneﬁt 
from spending on integrity management, 
operational assurance and production 
initiatives. In North America we expect 
further growth from our US shale activities, 
and in international markets we expect to 
see a signiﬁcant improvement from the 
progress we are making in Oman. 
Living our Values Living our Values g
Safety & Assurance 
Hummingbird team, 
Wood Group PSN, UK
The opportunity arose to perform the 
annual major shutdown of Hummingbird 
earlier than scheduled, and with very limited 
planning time available – just six weeks. The 
team members all demonstrated that they 
are living the Safety & Assurance Core Value 
by delivering a safe and efﬁcient project 
against tight timescales and in adverse 
weather conditions. 13
Our business Operational review Governance Financial statements
Wood Group GTS 
2012
$m
2011
$m Change
Revenue 1,343.3 1,195.5 12.4%
EBITA 88.6 78.8 12.4%
EBITA margin 6.6% 6.6% –
People 3,400 3,400 –
Revenue and EBITA increased by 12% 
reﬂecting growth in both Maintenance and 
Power Solutions. Headcount was in line with 
the position at December 2011. 
Maintenance revenues were up on 2011 
and EBITA increased by around 10%. Our 
aero derivative joint ventures, which are 
predominantly oil & gas related, made 
a strong contribution. EBITA margins 
improved, largely due to our increased focus 
on operating efﬁciency initiatives across our 
Maintenance activities. During the year, we 
were also awarded multi-year maintenance 
contracts covering Sakhalin island for SEIC, 
the Brent assets in the North Sea for Shell 
and the Sacramento Power Authority’s 
industrial facility in California. 
Power Solutions delivered EBITA slightly up 
on 2011. We have now completed our GWF 
contract, recognising a proﬁt on the contract 
overall. The Dorad contract has progressed 
largely as anticipated and is due to complete 
in the fourth quarter of 2013. Towards the 
end of 2012, we commenced work on our 
smaller contracts with NRG and Pasadena 
Water and Power.
Outlook
In GTS we anticipate continued 
improvement in Maintenance in 2013, 
principally due to operational improvement 
initiatives. The European power-related 
Maintenance market is expected to remain 
soft but we believe that we will see some 
improvement in the USA. In Power Solutions, 
we remain on course to complete the 
Dorad contract in 2013 together with the 
smaller contracts awarded in 2012. We are 
pursuing a number of good near term Power 
Solutions opportunities in the Americas and 
elsewhere, although these are smaller in 
scale. Having experienced delays in project 
awards, we anticipate a lower contribution 
from Power Solutions in 2013.
Don Cramer and Philip Booth, 
Wood Group GTS. Our test centres 
ensure quality of service to our 
customers.
Living our Values
Financial statements
Relationships 
Marcelle Yee Keow, 
Wood Group GTS, USA
Marcelle manages all projects for a major 
client. She is responsible for supporting 
the requirements for gas turbine auxiliary 
equipment, such as lube oil, water injection 
and pumping systems.
Marcelle has built up a strong relationship 
with the customer, and received plaudits 
from them for her commitment and support, 
while supporting them for the past three 
years. 
