 11
Our business Operational review Governance Financial statements
Wood Group Engineering 
2012
$m
2011
$m Change
Revenue 1,787.3 1,458.6 22.5%
EBITA 220.0 162.0 35.8%
EBITA margin 12.3% 11.1% 1.2pts
People 10,200 9,100 12%
Wood Group Engineering delivered very 
strong growth. Revenue increased by 23% 
and EBITA increased by 36%, principally 
reﬂecting increased activity in upstream and 
subsea & pipelines.  EBITA margin increased 
from 11.1% to 12.3%, largely as a result of 
higher volumes and improvement in pricing 
in some areas.
Headcount increased by 12% from 9,100 to 
10,200. The increase was heavily weighted 
to the ﬁrst half of the year, reﬂecting the 
timing of signiﬁcant contract awards in 
upstream. 
Our upstream business accounted for just 
under 40% of divisional revenue. Detailed 
engineering work continues on the Ichthys 
and Mafumeira Sul projects in Australia and 
Angola, which are scheduled to complete in 
the second half of 2013. Strength in the Gulf 
of Mexico was driven by FEED and detailed 
engineering work on projects including 
Anadarko Lucius, Exxon Hadrian, Chevron 
Jack & St Malo and Williams Partners 
Tubular Bells. We have visibility on prospects 
including detailed engineering following from 
ongoing and executed FEEDs, along with 
additional projects with existing customers. 
In Canada we have seen good growth 
over the last two years, but experienced a 
slowdown in activity in the last quarter which 
is continuing in 2013.
Our subsea & pipeline business accounted 
for almost 45% of revenue. Our subsea 
activities remained strong in the North Sea 
and Australia where we continue to work on 
projects including BP Quad 204 and Chevron 
Gorgon. Elsewhere, we continue to work on 
the next phase of ACG in the Caspian and 
on Block 18 in Angola, and have recently 
been awarded the subsea FEED work on 
the Abadi FLNG project in Indonesia for 
Inpex. Our onshore pipelines business has 
performed well in the USA, beneﬁting from 
the award of the Shell pipeline and terminals 
EPCM contract and general activity levels in 
the shale regions. 
Downstream, process & industrial activities 
accounted for just over 15% of revenue. 
Performance in the second half improved, 
although the market remains highly 
competitive.
Outlook
In 2012, Wood Group Engineering delivered 
a second consecutive year of over 30% 
EBITA growth as the division recovered 
from the trough in 2010. Looking ahead to 
2013, we anticipate revenue growth and 
margin improvement to lead to EBITA growth 
of around 15%.  This is supported by our 
current order book, prospects in a number 
of key regions including the Gulf of Mexico, 
the Middle East, the Norwegian North 
Sea and Asia Paciﬁc, and our view on the 
overall market which should beneﬁt from the 
forecast increase in E&P capex in 2013 of 
around 7%.
Chris Johnson, Mechanical Engineer for  
Wood Group Mustang’s IMV business. 
Supporting our clients with innovative 
solutions, IMV are recognised as industry 
leaders for project execution services in the 
thermal heavy oil sector.
Living our Values
Innovation
Integrity management group, 
Wood Group Kenny, Australia
This year the integrity management and 
solutions software business of Wood Group 
Kenny introduced an innovative software 
product to the market which provides us 
with a competitive advantage in the world 
of asset data and integrity management. 
This ‘all-of-facility’ integrity management 
system is the culmination of a two-year 
development and testing programme.
g
Innovation
ues
