 Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements
7
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CEO’s review
“Since my appointment as CEO 
I have delivered a consistent 
message to our people that our 
Core Values are vital for our future 
success, and that we can be even 
better if we increase collaboration 
across our business.” 
2013 Group performance
2013
$m
2012
$m Change
Total revenue 7,064.2 6,828.1 3%
Total EBITA 533.0 459.1 16%
EBITA margin % 7.5% 6.7% 0.8pts
Profit before tax 412.8 361.4 14%
Basic EPS 81.4c 71.4c 14%
Adjusted diluted EPS
2
98.6c 85.2c 16%
Total dividend 22.0c 17.0c 29%
ROCE
6
19.4% 19.3% 0.1pts
Note: The analysis above includes revenue and EBITA related to the Wood Group GTS businesses which will transfer to 
the gas turbine joint venture with Siemens. As required by accounting standards, the results from these businesses have 
been included in discontinued operations in the Group Financial Statements for 2013. 
Safety & Assurance 
The safety of our people, and those affected by 
what we do, is our top priority. Tragically we had 
a fatality during the year in our Pyeroy business 
in Wood Group PSN. We have assessed, and 
are acting on, the lessons learned. In 2013, we 
saw some improvement in our total recordable 
case frequency (TRCF) and our lost work case 
frequency (LWCF) remained relatively flat. During 
2013 we established a Board-level Safety & 
Assurance committee to provide enhanced 
visibility and awareness of our performance, and 
we extended our Safety Leadership Programme 
to a wider audience.  
Financial performance
2013 represents another year of good growth 
for the Group with Total EBITA up 16%. In Wood 
Group Engineering, revenue increased by 11% 
and EBITA increased by 12% reflecting growth 
in all three segments: Upstream, Subsea & 
pipeline and Downstream. In Wood Group PSN, 
strong EBITA growth of 28% included a full 
year contribution from the Duval and Mitchells 
acquisitions in the US completed during 2012, 
although performance overall was impacted 
by continuing losses in Oman where we are 
now agreeing a transition plan to exit. In Wood 
Group GTS, revenue fell 19% and EBITA fell 
9%, with Maintenance up slightly on 2012 and 
a lower contribution from Power Solutions. Net 
debt at the end of December was $310m and 
average net debt during the year was $258m. 
Net debt excludes a receipt in January in 
respect of a recovery in relation to a previously 
terminated contract in Venezuela which after 
costs, payments to non-controlling interests and 
taxation is expected to be around $40m. 
Group review 
Since my appointment as CEO I have focused 
on a number of key issues. I have delivered a 
consistent message to our people that our Core 
Values are vital for our future success and that we 
can be even better if we increase collaboration 
across our business. I have been developing our 
leadership team on the Executive Committee 
and, together, we have considered the Group’s 
strategy which remains sound and positions us 
well for the longer term. We are predominantly 
an upstream oil & gas services business and our 
intention is to broaden and deepen the services 
we can offer in this sector. 
We have also reviewed all parts of the Group from 
three perspectives: risk profile, current and future 
financial performance and strategic fit with the 
Group overall, and this has resulted in a number 
of actions covered below.
I have previously highlighted the need to remain a 
lower risk, predominantly reimbursable business. 
During the year we tightened our controls around 
Bob Keiller, CEO
More on page
12  Financial review
15 Our Core Values 
24 Governance
26 Our Board of directors
14 Footnotes 8
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
contracts that contain lump sum or fixed-price 
elements, to ensure that we keep our overall 
risk profile within acceptable levels. Typically, 
these contracts together represent less than 
10% of revenues. Specifically in the Power 
Solutions business of Wood Group GTS, where 
we have executed large lump sum projects, the 
risk profile was too high. The Dorad contract is 
the last remaining contract of this scale and is 
approaching completion. It is anticipated that the 
contract will be profitable overall, but will generate 
a loss in 2013 and we will not pursue further 
opportunities of this size.
We looked at financial performance across the 
Group and recognised that in Wood Group 
GTS, certain Maintenance activities with less 
differentiation were not delivering an acceptable 
level of return. We concluded that a sale of 
the underperforming parts was not in the best 
interest of shareholders, and recognised that our 
activities in joint ventures typically deliver stronger 
performance over the longer term. In October 
we therefore entered an agreement to form a 
joint venture consisting of the Maintenance and 
Power Solutions businesses of Wood Group GTS 
(excluding the Rolls Wood Group, TransCanada 
Turbines and Sulzer Wood joint ventures), and 
Siemens’ TurboCare business unit which provides 
aftermarket design, repair and manufacturing 
services. The joint venture will be a stronger, 
better differentiated business, providing access 
to certain OEM know-how. The joint venture 
is expected to deliver annual net synergies to 
Wood Group of around $15m by year three. 
In other areas of the Group, we have taken 
steps including merging operations in Canada, 
reorganising our Engineering divisional structure 
and addressing underperforming contracts.
Our consistent message on increasing 
collaboration has resulted in business 
opportunities from people working more closely 
together. Wood Group Mustang and Wood 
Group PSN jointly secured a topsides detailed 
engineering and procurement scope in Canada, 
and we are working more closely together in 
the US, Australia and elsewhere. We recently 
completed a corporate rebranding exercise which 
we believe will improve customer awareness 
and understanding of the Group’s services, and 
better facilitate our collaborative efforts. We are 
increasingly focused on deepening customer 
relationships at a Group level and this is resulting 
in a number of potential opportunities.
In 2013, we invested $276m in acquisitions which 
we believe will improve our financial performance 
and strategic positioning. In December we 
acquired Elkhorn for a consideration of $215m, 
representing around six times pro forma EBITA. 
Elkhorn is a Wyoming based construction 
services provider which enhances our US shale 
exposure and complements our construction, 
maintenance and fabrication activities. We also 
acquired Pyeroy in July to expand the range of 
services we provide into specialist coatings and 
fabric maintenance, and in May we acquired 
Intetech, a niche provider of software and 
engineering consultancy services for well integrity 
and corrosion management. We will continue to 
pursue acquisition opportunities in 2014.
Our consideration of capital structure is informed 
by our assessment of operating cash flows, 
investment opportunities, and the risks in our 
business. We would generally expect a net debt 
to EBITDA range of around 0.5x to 1.5x going 
forward, and to be typically below 1.0x. To the 
extent that the Group has financial capacity 
which is surplus to the anticipated needs for 
acquisitions and organic growth, we would look 
to return this to shareholders through share buy 
backs or special dividends.
The Group continues to adopt a progressive 
dividend policy taking into account its capital 
requirements, cash flows and earnings. Since  
IPO in 2002, we have increased the dividend by 
an equivalent of 20% per annum compound.  
The directors have recommended a final dividend 
of 14.9 cents per share which makes a total 
distribution for the year of 22.0 cents, an increase 
of 29%. Reflecting our confidence in future 
growth, the Board currently expects the dividend 
increase in 2014 to be around 25%, and our 
intent would be to increase the US dollar value  
of dividend per share paid from 2015 onwards  
by a double digit percentage. 
Outlook  
I would like to thank Allister for his valuable 
support during 2013 and for his extraordinary 
dedication and leadership over 23 years with 
Wood Group. During the year, we have taken 
some important strategic steps and achieved 
good growth. In 2014, our mix of opex and capex 
activities and the contribution of completed 
acquisitions is expected to lead to growth overall, 
with growth in Wood Group PSN offsetting a 
reduction in Wood Group Engineering. More 
details of anticipated performance are set out in 
the balance of this report. Looking further ahead, 
we believe our strategy remains sound and 
positions us well for growth over the longer term.
CEO’s review continued
