 6
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chairman’s statement
“2013 has been a year of good 
growth and important strategic 
development for the Group.  
Having supported Bob through the 
planned period of transition, I will 
retire from the Board at the AGM on  
14 May 2014. I am delighted that 
Ian Marchant will take over as 
Chairman of Wood Group. His 
appointment represents a natural 
evolution in the Group’s stewardship 
and provides important continuity.” 
Introduction 
2013 has been a year of good growth and 
important strategic development for the Group 
under Bob Keiller’s leadership in his first full 
year as CEO, having taken over in November 
2012. My appointment as Chairman at that time 
reflected the need for continuity amongst the 
senior team. Since his appointment in 2012, Bob 
has shown excellent leadership as he further 
develops the Group’s strategy and direction.
Having supported Bob through the planned 
period of transition I will retire from the Board at 
the AGM in May. I am delighted that Ian Marchant 
will take over as Chairman of Wood Group. 
Ian knows the Group well, having served as a 
non-executive director on the Board since 2006, 
latterly as senior independent director. Ian was 
Chief Executive of SSE plc for over 10 years, 
is non-executive chairman of Infinis Energy plc 
and a non-executive director of Aggreko plc. His 
appointment represents a natural evolution in 
the Group’s stewardship and provides important  
continuity. I am confident that Ian will be an 
excellent leader of the Board and ensure its 
continued effectiveness.
Markets
Energy markets generally remained favourable 
during 2013 with analysts typically estimating an 
increase in E&P spend of around 10%. For 2014, 
analysts estimate some reduction in that growth 
rate, reflecting a greater focus on capital budgets 
by our customers. The Group continues to have a 
good balance of opex and capex activities which 
should help underpin growth in the medium term.
Financial performance and dividends 
In 2013, Total Revenue was up 3% and Total 
EBITA was up 16% to $533.0m, with EBITA 
margin increasing from 6.7% to 7.5%. Adjusted 
diluted EPS increased from 85.2 cents to 98.6 
cents. We are declaring a final dividend of 14.9 
cents which will bring the full year dividend to 
22.0 cents, an increase of 29% on 2012. 
Board changes
In September, we announced that Mike 
Straughen, Group Director for Wood Group 
Engineering intends to retire from the Board 
during 2014. Mike has stepped away from 
his Wood Group Engineering role and now 
oversees the Group’s Health, Safety, Security 
and Environment (HSSE) activities and sits on the 
Safety & Assurance committee. The committee is 
chaired by Tom Botts, formerly of Shell, who was 
appointed as non-executive director in January 
2013.
In October we entered an agreement to form a 
joint venture between elements of Wood Group 
GTS and Siemens’ TurboCare business, at which 
point Mark Dobler, Group Director for Wood 
Group GTS stepped down from the Board. Mark 
will transfer to the new joint venture on formation 
as its CEO.
Neil H Smith retired from the Board in December. 
Neil was a non-executive director from 2004 and 
served on the Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees during his time on the Board. His 
knowledge of the power generation industry 
greatly assisted Board discussions on the 
strategic development of our gas turbine 
activities.
I have enjoyed leading Wood Group during an 
exciting period of organic growth and strategic 
development including, most recently, the 
acquisition of PSN and the sale of the Group’s 
Well Support business. I am leaving the Group 
well positioned for growth in good long-term 
markets and in the hands of a strong Board and 
management team. I will continue to follow the 
Group’s ongoing development with keen interest. 
Finally, I would like to thank our management and 
employees for their enormous and continuing 
contribution in making Wood Group a great 
company.
Allister G Langlands, Chairman
