 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 5 4
Introduction
In May, following the retirement of Allister Langlands, I was delighted 
to be appointed non-executive Chairman of Wood Group; a business 
with tremendous people, a comprehensive range of value adding 
services, and operating in a market with strong long-term fundamentals, 
notwithstanding the current lower oil price environment.
Markets
In 2014, we saw the anticipated reduction in capex by many operators as 
they looked to increase efficiency on capital projects although some areas, 
such as independents in North America and NOCs, generally continued 
to increase expenditure. Towards the end of 2014 we witnessed a decline 
in the oil price. The impact of this and actions we are taking as a result are 
addressed in this report.
Dividend
The Group performed well in 2014, delivering in line with expectations. 
In February 2014, we outlined our expectation of an increase in the 
2014 dividend by around 25%. The Board has recommended a final 
dividend of 18.6 cents per share, which makes a total distribution for 
the year of 27.5 cents, an increase of 25%. Reflecting our confidence 
in longer term growth, our intention remains to increase the US dollar 
dividend per share for 2015 onwards by a double digit percentage.
Board changes
Allister Langlands retired as Chairman in May having held the role since 
2012, being CEO prior to that from 2007 and deputy CEO from 1999.
He was an excellent leader of Wood Group and the Board, and we are 
grateful for his extraordinary contribution. 
In November, we announced that Alan Semple, our long serving  
Chief Financial Officer (CFO), will retire from the Board in May 2015. 
David Kemp will succeed Alan in the role of Group CFO. David joined  
the Group in 2013 as Wood Group PSN CFO and has demonstrated 
sound judgement, financial acumen and knowledge in his role.  
Also in November, we announced a new role of Chief Operating Officer 
(COO) in recognition of the increasing breadth of the Group’s operations 
and longer term growth potential. Robin Watson, currently CEO of  
Wood Group PSN, will take on this role during the first half of 2015. 
Mike Straughen, Group Director of Health, Safety, Security and 
Environment (HSSE), retired from the Board in June 2014. Mike served 
on the Board since 2007, initially as Chief Executive of Wood Group 
Engineering. He oversaw impressive growth in the Group’s Engineering 
business globally and made a significant contribution in leading the Group 
HSSE function. At the AGM in May, Michel Contie will also step down from 
the Board, having served for 5 years as a non-executive director.
Outlook
We will continue to be directed by our Core Values. We will focus on 
helping customers increase productivity and efficiency in new projects 
and existing operations and extend asset lives, while recognising safety 
as the number one priority. In conjunction with our focus on customer 
efficiency, we are also implementing internal cost and efficiency 
measures to ensure we remain competitive. 
We will remain a reimbursable, asset light business with a balance 
of opex and capex activities, a broad range of longer term contracts 
and significant customer and geographic diversification. As we look 
to 2015, we expect financial performance to demonstrate the relative 
resilience of our underlying business in a challenging market and we 
will see the full year benefit from completed acquisitions.
Ian Marchant, Chairman
Chairman’s statement
"In May, following the retirement of Allister 
Langlands, I was delighted to be appointed  
non-executive Chairman of Wood Group; 
a business with tremendous people, a 
comprehensive range of value adding 
services, and operating in a market with 
strong long-term fundamentals."
