 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 7 6
Financial 
The Group performed well in 2014, delivering EBITA of $549.6m up 
3.1% and AEPS of 99.6c up 1.0% in line with expectations, against a 
backdrop of increased focus on efficiency by operators and a decline in 
oil price in the 4th quarter. The Group’s financial performance reflected 
the impact of completed strategic acquisitions and our diversified 
portfolio of geographic markets, customers and services which 
positioned the Group well to benefit from areas of growth such as the 
US onshore market. Overall, the results reflect strong growth in Wood 
Group PSN Production Services more than offsetting the anticipated 
reduction in Wood Group Engineering and weaker performance in 
Turbine Activities. 
Our strong balance sheet provides us with both security and flexibility.  
In early 2015 we extended our $950m bilateral borrowing facilities to 
2020 and achieved a material improvement in pricing. Also in 2014, we 
issued $375m of unsecured notes in the US private placement market, 
which further diversified our funding and extended the maturity profile. 
Average net debt during the year was $416.4m including JVs, and net 
debt at the year-end on a similar basis was $295.7m, around the lower 
end of our stated preferred range of 0.5x-1.5x net debt to EBITDA.
Operational
In 2014, we continued to deliver our strategy underpinned by our focus on 
safety, organic growth, collaboration, acquisitions and risk management.
The safety of our people and those affected by what we do is our top 
priority. In 2014, across our workforce we had no fatalities and our  
total recordable case frequency (TRCF) and our lost work case frequency 
(LWCF) measures both showed improvement in the year. 
In August, we appointed a new Group Head of HSSE, Nina Schofield, 
to continue our focus on improvement and further developing assurance 
across the Group.
Organic growth has accounted for close to 70% of the Group’s growth 
since IPO and remains a primary objective. As such we continued to 
enhance our approach and processes in 2014, identifying and securing 
opportunities across our business through over 2,000 individual 
contract awards. Our order book relative to future sales is at the lower 
end of 6-9 months in our Engineering business and over 12 months in 
Wood Group PSN Production Services. 
Collaboration has been an important focus area in the year. Working 
together as a Group developing the strong relationships we have with 
our customers has increased our pipeline of opportunities and we have 
secured several contracts including ExxonMobil in Malaysia, Tatweer in 
Saudi Arabia and Cabinda in Angola, which we do not believe would 
otherwise have been possible.
In 2014, we have seen the full year benefit of the successful acquisitions 
of Elkhorn in the US and Pyeroy in the UK, both of which have delivered 
notable growth since acquisition in 2013. We invested a further $217.3m 
on M&A in the year. We acquired Sunstone, a Calgary based pipeline 
consultancy; Cape Software, a Texas based training and process 
simulation company; Meesters, a specialist fabrication business in the 
Bakken shale region; Agility Projects AS, an offshore greenfield and 
brownfield company in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea; and in 
December we acquired Swaggart, a provider of civil construction and 
fabrication services in in the US. We also entered into a joint venture 
with Siemens, called EthosEnergy, in May, to improve the longer term 
positioning of our less differentiated Turbine Activities. 
CEO’s review
“The Group performed well in 2014 
reflecting the impact of completed 
strategic acquisitions and our  
diversified portfolio of geographic 
markets, customers and services.” Financial statements Governance Strategic report
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 7 6
Our risk profile remains key to how we manage the business and 
establish an appropriate balance of through-cycle resilience with  
upside potential. We strive to maintain a diversified portfolio of 
geographic markets, customers and services. We are an asset light 
people business with significant flexibility, and around 60% of our 
revenues are customer opex driven relating to existing production.  
We are also a primarily reimbursable business with around 95% of 
Group revenue on this basis.
Reaction to a lower oil price environment
We are taking a number of actions in the lower price environment. 
Firstly, we are increasing our business development focus, highlighting 
how we can help our customers achieve their objective of reduced 
cost and increased efficiency. The lower oil price brings challenges 
for our customers, and we are in active discussions with them to 
assess how we can work together to improve performance from new 
and existing assets and reduce costs without affecting the safety or 
the integrity of the assets they operate. We are implementing plans 
to maintain and increase our own efficiency to ensure our ongoing 
competitiveness. This will continue to emphasise the importance 
of collaboration across Wood Group; management of our people 
utilisation levels; a range of short-term and longer-term actions 
designed to manage and reduce cost; and increased focus on 
credit risks. Our internal focus on efficiency is anticipated to lead 
to cost reductions and deferrals of over $30m in comparison to 
2014. Alongside this, we will continue to look to make value adding 
acquisitions that are consistent with our strategy but will apply tougher 
filters on these acquisitions reflecting the macro environment.
2014 Group performance
2014 
$m
2013 
$m Change
Total Revenue 7,616.4 7,064.2 7.8%
Total EBITA
1
549.6 533.0 3.1%
EBITA margin % 7.2% 7.5% (0.3pts)
Revenue from continuing operations on an equity accounting basis 6,574.1 5,753.2 14.3%
Profit from continuing operations before tax and exceptionals on an 
equity accounting basis
414.5 373.7 10.9%
Basic EPS 87.9c 81.4c 8.0%
Adjusted diluted EPS
2
99.6c 98.6c 1.0%
Total dividend 27.5c 22.0c 25.0%
ROCE
5
17.7% 19.4% (1.7pts)
Note: The commentary below on trading performance is presented based on proportionally consolidated numbers, which is the basis used 
by management to run the business. Total Revenue and Total EBITA include the contribution from joint ventures and activities classified as 
discontinued, which includes the results of the businesses that transferred to the EthosEnergy joint venture prior to its formation in May.
7
The resilience of our through cycle model is demonstrated in the 
historic earnings growth profile of the Group. I have confidence that my 
management team’s significant experience and long record of success 
in cyclical oil and gas markets will ensure we take the steps necessary to 
maximise performance in the new commodity price environment.
 
Bob Keiller, CEO
