 I am delighted to be writing to you for the first time as Chairman
of Johnson Matthey and to be introducing this annual report on
what has been another successful year for your company.
Having joined your board as a non-executive director on
1st January 2006, I am honoured to have been appointed as
Chairman from 1st April. I also consider myself extremely
fortunate to be joining the company at such an exciting time in
the development of its businesses. With its focus on products
and technologies that benefit the environment, reduce energy
consumption, provide alternative energy solutions for the future
and treat life threatening diseases, Johnson Matthey is without
any doubt a company that can make a real difference to
improving the quality of life of people around the world.
Over the last few months I have had the opportunity
of meeting with a number of Johnson Matthey’s major
shareholders and I have received very positive feedback from
each one of these meetings. I look forward to meeting other
shareholders at this year’s Annual General Meeting and to
having the opportunity of discussing your company’s businesses
and its performance with you at that time.
As Chairman of your board, I see my role as ensuring that
the company delivers performance in line with shareholders’
expectations and continues to create superior shareholder
value. Johnson Matthey has a good reputation for the quality
of its corporate governance and for its reporting on all aspects
of its operations. I intend to build on this reputation and to
ensure that all shareholders have full information on all aspects
of the company’s activities and achievements.
I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to my
predecessor, Michael Miles. Michael served as a non-executive
director of Johnson Matthey for 16 years, the last eight of which
as Chairman. Under his leadership the company was refocused
on its core skills in catalysts, precious metals and fine chemicals
and has emerged as a world leading speciality chemicals
company. Throughout his service as Chairman, Michael oversaw
excellent progress towards the board’s main objective of
delivering superior value to its shareholders.
Over the 16 years that Michael Miles served on the board
he made a major contribution to its work and that of its
committees. His vast amount of overseas business experience,
particularly his experience of the Far East, has been invaluable
as the company has expanded its operations in Asia and in
other markets around the world. On behalf of all of us at
Johnson Matthey, I would like to thank Michael for his important
contribution to the success of the company and to wish him all
the very best for his retirement.
Johnson Matthey has a very strong executive team led by
our Chief Executive, Neil Carson. As I have travelled around
the group worldwide, I have been struck by the enthusiasm,
professionalism and dedication of everyone that I have met.
2
- Johnson Matthey
Chairman’s Statement
Sir John Banham
Chairman I know that this reflects the investment that the company
makes in the training and development of its people. We
continue to place an absolute priority on nurturing our
management talent and on the development of the skills of
people at all levels of the organisation, to equip them to meet
the challenges of the future and ensure that we benefit from
the opportunities before us. On your behalf, I would like to
thank all of our employees around the world for their hard
work and dedication during the past year.
Your board has a long standing commitment to reporting
on Johnson Matthey’s corporate social responsibility (CSR)
performance. A comprehensive review of the group’s policies
and performance in this very important area is to be found
on pages 27 to 37 of this annual report. This year our CSR
presentation includes a case study on Johnson Matthey’s role in
low carbon technologies, an area that is attracting a great deal
of attention as concerns over global warming and high energy
prices continue to hit the headlines. We are also publishing the
fourth edition of our full web report on CSR. This continues to
be well received by key stakeholders in your company, and
generates much very useful feedback; it can be accessed on the
company’s website at www.matthey.com.
In short, the prospects for your company over the next
few years are very encouraging. Johnson Matthey is in good
shape and continues to make excellent progress towards the
delivery of superior shareholder value. The company is well
positioned to benefit from a number of exciting opportunities
in its core businesses driven by environmental concerns, high oil
prices and emerging technologies. I look forward to reporting on
a successful 2006/07 and to the company continuing to achieve
good growth over the years ahead.
Sir John Banham
Chairman
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
3
