 4
- Johnson Matthey
Johnson Matthey achieved good results in 2005/06. Sales
excluding the value of precious metals rose by 13% to £1.3 billion.
Underlying earnings per share increased by 9% to 72.7 pence.
We continued to invest heavily in the future. Capital
expenditure of £124.0 million was 1.8 times depreciation.
We increased R&D expenditure by 9%. In February 2006 we
acquired Davy Process Technology Limited (DPT) for a net cost
of £24.6 million. DPT has world class expertise in chemical
process technology which it licenses to customers in the oil, gas
and petrochemical industries. The acquisition will give Johnson
Matthey the opportunity to expand catalyst sales into the
rapidly emerging markets for new process catalysts.
Our business is built on long term investment in new
technology. Environmental Catalysts and Technologies (ECT)
is about to reap some of the benefits of that long term
investment with the emergence of new markets for heavy duty
diesel (HDD) catalysts in Europe, North America and Japan.
We expect to obtain a leading position in these markets which
we now expect will be worth US$700 million, excluding
precious metals, by the end of 2008.
We are also benefiting from similar technology leadership
for light duty diesel vehicles where concerns about particulate
emissions are encouraging fitment of catalysed soot filters
(CSFs) well ahead of the legislation (Euro V) which will apply
in Europe in 2010.
The legislation to limit these emissions will continue to
tighten. A new market will emerge in 2011 for off road
vehicles, which will be as large as the one for heavy duty
trucks and buses.
Growth in catalyst technology is not limited to vehicles.
High oil and gas prices, together with pressure to move to low
carbon energy, is transforming the long term market for process
catalysts. The graph on page 5 shows the price of oil at which
new technologies become economic. Industry experts differ in
their views of the breakeven prices for these various products
so we have shown the prices as ranges above which the
processes are financially attractive. DPT has process technology
expertise in all these new markets. Gas to liquids (GTL) and
coal to chemicals depend on a range of catalysts to achieve the
final product. Nearly all these processes require purification
catalysts to remove harmful contaminants. We expect to see
major growth in these markets over the next decade.
We are currently living in a ‘carbon world’ where most
of our energy is derived from fossil fuels and the impact of the
resulting carbon dioxide (CO
2
) emissions to the atmosphere
is well publicised. There is a growing and urgent consensus
that we need to reduce worldwide carbon emissions through
the more efficient use of energy and the introduction of
alternative energy sources, so starting a transition towards a
lower carbon and ultimately a hydrogen economy. Catalysts will
play a crucial role in this transition. They not only allow chemical
reactions to proceed under less harsh operating conditions
(for example lower temperature and pressure) they also
facilitate the more efficient conversion of raw materials to the
desired end product. Hydrogen offers the potential to be an
alternative, or additional, energy carrier to power our homes
and workplaces, transport and industry. Johnson Matthey has a
broad range of skills in hydrogen processing ranging from the
catalysts used in its generation, to the materials used for its
storage and the development of systems to use it in fuel cells.
Our Operating and Financial Review (OFR) on pages 6
to 37 sets out in more detail Johnson Matthey’s involvement
in these markets. In this year’s report we have included a
special section describing the company’s involvement in
improving energy efficiency and reducing carbon emissions
(pages 34 to 37).
Chief Executive’s Statement
Neil Carson
Chief Executive Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
5
Developing the technologies to meet these new
opportunities is at the heart of our business, but on its own
it is not enough. We need to generate a good return on our
invested capital to provide an attractive return to our
shareholders and retain sufficient funds to support future
growth. We have for many years focused on return on assets
(ROA) as the key performance measure for our businesses and
have set a pre-tax target of 20% which is well above our cost
of capital. This year we improved the group return to 17.0%
and are looking for a further gradual improvement over the
next few years. We have also increased our focus on cash
generation. Not all our businesses have the growth potential
of some of our catalyst businesses. However the cash they
generate is an important factor in the company’s success.
Precious Metal Products, Pharmaceutical Materials and
Ceramics all achieved strong cash generation in 2005/06.
Much of our attention today is focused on delivering the
opportunities that our technological investment has generated.
In the last year we have built a new factory at Royston, UK
and are making a substantial investment at our facility near
Philadelphia, USA to manufacture the next generation of
products for diesel emission controls. New catalyst factories
are also being constructed in Korea and Russia.
In Johnson Matthey we have a very strong team ethos
where every employee has a key role to play. That will be
crucial in delivering our future growth. The fact that many of
the company’s products are beneficial to the environment is a
strong motivator. We place considerable emphasis on career
development. Over the last few years we have also worked
hard on improving our health and safety record. Although the
accident rate has fallen steadily and is below industry averages,
our philosophy is that any accident is unacceptable and
achieving a zero accident rate is our objective. The group’s
policies in this area are set out in our Corporate Social
Responsibility (CSR) report on pages 27 to 37 which forms an
important part of the OFR. A fuller version is available on the
company’s website at www.matthey.com.
Our financial record over the last ten years has been well
above average with 8.7% compound annual growth in earnings
per share (before one-off items and goodwill amortisation) and
7.7% compound growth in dividends (pages 110 to 111). We
are recommending a 9% increase in the dividend for 2005/06.
The outlook for 2006/07 and the next few years continues to
be very encouraging. We expect the group to achieve strong
top line growth from the introduction of new products and
generate good growth in earnings. A more detailed outlook
statement is included in our OFR on page 8.
Neil Carson
Chief Executive
Brent Crude
Oil Price
US$/Barrel
With oil above
$40 per barrel
the following
technologies
become viable:
Coal to Chemicals
$40-$50
Biodiesel
$35-$45
Gas to Liquids
$25-$35
1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
0
10
50
40
30
20
60
70
80
Oil Price Drives Interest in Hydrocarbons to Products Technology
