 4 Johnson Matthey
Johnson Matthey achieved good results in 2006/07. Sales
excluding the value of precious metals were 25% up at
£1.45 billion. Profit before tax and one-off items, including the
results of discontinued operations, was up 10% at £242.6 million
and earnings per share on the same basis were 12% ahead at
81.2 pence.
Catalysts Division performed well with strong growth in
both its Environmental Catalysts and Technologies and Process
Catalysts and Technologies businesses. Precious Metal Products
Division had an excellent year benefiting from buoyant market
conditions and a strong contribution from its manufacturing
businesses. Pharmaceutical Materials Division returned to growth
following its disappointing performance last year with a good
recovery in its US operations.
At the end of February we concluded the sale of our
Ceramics Division. The proceeds will be used to buy back
shares and fund bolt-on acquisitions. This sale completes the
process, which we announced in November 2003, of disposing
of parts of our former Colours & Coatings Division and
focusing the group on our core activities.
Our strategic intent is to deliver superior growth in earnings
by capitalising on our world class technology in catalysts, precious
metals, fine chemicals and process technology where our
expertise provides a competitive edge. In order to achieve this
we continue to invest heavily in the future of our businesses.
In 2006/07 capital expenditure was £119.8 million which
was 1.5 times depreciation. Most of this investment was in
Catalysts Division with Environmental Catalysts and Technologies
(ECT) spending £63.9 million on new manufacturing capacity.
During the year a new diesel catalyst production facility was
completed in the United States and construction of an
additional catalysed soot filter (CSF) plant in Royston, UK is
well underway. Additional capacity has been added at our
plants in South Africa and Japan and we are building new
factories in South Korea and Russia. In Process Catalysts and
Technologies (PCT) we have invested in additional
manufacturing capacity for the Ammonia, Methanol, Oil and
Gas (AMOG) business.
Despite this high level of investment in capex and in R&D
we continue to make progress towards our pre-tax target of a
20% return on assets (ROA). This year we improved our group
ROA to 17.4% and expect to maintain or improve the group’s
return over the next few years.
Global concern about the environment and the need to
make the most efficient use of finite resources such as
hydrocarbons, from which we currently derive most of our
energy, is providing our business with many exciting
opportunities for growth. Our long term commitment to
investment in R&D and capital expenditure has ensured that
we are well positioned to help address these concerns.
Emission control legislation continues to tighten around the
world. 2006/07 saw the start of legislation in Europe and North
America that is driving the new market for heavy duty diesel
(HDD) catalysts. In fact, in the second half of the year we made
sales excluding the value of precious metals of £46 million into
this brand new market. HDD emission limits will tighten further
in Europe, Japan and the United States in 2009 and 2010 and
these new standards will require more sophisticated catalyst
systems to meet them. China, India, Brazil and South Korea all
have plans to introduce HDD emissions legislation by 2010. This
will add significantly to the market for HDD catalysts. A further
new market will emerge from 2011 as the US and Europe
phase in similar tough emission standards for off road diesel
vehicles. We estimate that by 2014/15 the global market for
HDD catalysts will be worth approximately US$3 billion in
sales, excluding the value of precious metals.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
Neil Carson
Chief Executive Annual Report and Accounts 2007 5
We are also continuing to benefit from technology
leadership in light duty diesel catalysts where concerns about
particulate emissions are resulting in the early fitment of
catalysed soot filters ahead of the Euro 5 light duty diesel
legislation which comes into full force in 2010.
Growth in our catalysts business is by no means limited to
vehicle emission control. High oil prices coupled with concerns
about global warming have created further opportunities for
our PCT business. There is a growing consensus that the world
needs to reduce carbon emissions through the more efficient
use of energy and the introduction of alternative energy sources,
thus starting a transition towards a lower carbon and ultimately
a hydrogen economy. Catalysts will play a crucial role in this
transition. Johnson Matthey is a world leader in catalysts for
the generation of hydrogen and has a strong position in other
technologies that are helping our customers to make the most
efficient use of hydrocarbon resources and to begin this transition
towards a lower carbon future. The acquisition of Davy Process
Technology (DPT) in February 2006 has been a great success,
providing us not only with additional opportunities to grow our
catalyst sales but also with good visibility of future developments
in chemical processes and alternative fuels. Ultimately, when
hydrogen is more widely used as a fuel we will benefit from our
leadership in fuel cell technology.
From 1st April 2007 we have reorganised our divisional
structure to give greater focus on our technologies concerned
with protecting the environment. We have created a new
Environmental Technologies Division comprising the ECT
business, which has been renamed Emission Control
Technologies, the process technologies businesses within PCT
(AMOG, DPT and Tracerco), which form a new Process
Technologies business, and Fuel Cells. This new division brings
together our core skills in catalysts and process technology and
is well placed to serve current and emerging markets.
Increasingly CO
2
will be viewed as a ‘pollutant’ and we are
concentrating on how Johnson Matthey, and in particular our
new Environmental Technologies Division, will thrive in the
future as governments legislate for lower carbon emissions in
response to the threat from climate change.
The remaining businesses within PCT, which serve the
speciality chemicals and pharmaceutical markets, have been
merged with Pharmaceutical Materials to form a new Fine
Chemicals & Catalysts Division. This combines the group’s fine
chemicals and related catalysts businesses and will enable us to
take advantage of the marketing and technology synergies that
exist between these businesses. The structure of our Precious
Metal Products Division remains unchanged.
In recent years Johnson Matthey has made great progress
in the field of corporate social responsibility (CSR). We pride
ourselves on having a strong team ethos where every
employee has a key role to play in the growth and success of
our business. We therefore place a great deal of emphasis on
career development. The excellent performance achieved in
2006/07 is the result of outstanding efforts from our workforce
and management teams around the world. Going forward we
will increase our focus on developing people to ensure that
we make the most of the opportunities ahead of us. We also
continue to work hard on improving our health and safety
record. While our accident rate continues to fall and is below
industry averages we believe that any accident is unacceptable
and it is our objective to achieve a zero accident rate. The
group’s policies in this important area are set out in our CSR
report on the company’s website at www.matthey.com.
Over the last year we have been examining how to make
our business more sustainable as a first step towards developing
a sustainability strategy for the group. In doing this we have
been focusing on two key questions: Firstly, how can we be
more efficient in the way that we use resources in our
manufacturing operations and offices? Secondly, how can we
design products that are both better than those of our
competitors and help our customers become more sustainable?
There is a real groundswell of support for sustainability
initiatives amongst our staff and together we are working on
developing new strategies for the future.
We have a number of excellent growth opportunities
before us. Our long term commitment to investing in R&D and
capital expenditure, as well as in the skills of our excellent team
of people, means that we are well positioned to capitalise on
these opportunities. The outlook for the group and particularly
for our new Environmental Technologies Division over the next
few years is very encouraging. A more detailed outlook
statement is included in our Operating and Financial Review
(OFR) on page 8.
Neil Carson
Chief Executive
Above: Heavy duty diesel catalyst manufacturing 
at our facility near Philadelphia, USA.
