 I am pleased to report that 2006/07 has been another good
year for Johnson Matthey. Your company has continued to
benefit from its long term commitment to investment in R&D
and capital expenditure and its focus on products and
technologies that benefit the environment and help to make
the most efficient use of increasingly expensive energy
resources. Most importantly, the year has also seen us make
good progress towards the board’s main objective of delivering
superior value to you, our shareholders. During the year the
total return to Johnson Matthey shareholders was 16%. Over
the seven years to March 2007, whilst the FTSE 100 index fell
slightly, Johnson Matthey shares rose by 120%.
The importance of our long term strategy is well illustrated
by a key development that took place this year. The second half
of the year saw major growth in our sales of catalysts for heavy
duty diesel (HDD) vehicles, a market that has been brought
about by tough emissions standards for buses and trucks that
came into force in Europe in October 2006 and in the US in
January 2007. Our investment in developing HDD catalyst
technology, testing and manufacturing infrastructure began in
the early 1990s and this long term perspective has ensured that
we now have a strong share of this new market.
Your board is fully committed to reporting on Johnson
Matthey’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance. A
review of our CSR performance is presented on pages 25 to 33
of this Annual Report and includes a section entitled ‘Working
Towards a Sustainable Future’. Our full CSR report can be found
on the company’s website. This spring I attended the group’s
annual conference for its senior management team, a major
theme of which was sustainability, looking at how we can
operate in a more sustainable way and how we can help our
customers in a transition towards a more sustainable future.
I was struck by the tremendous enthusiasm for sustainability
among those attending the conference and was delighted to
be able to participate in this part of the company wide process
to develop Johnson Matthey’s sustainability strategy.
Every one of us can do our part to move towards a
sustainable future. One small change that we are proposing is
to amend our Articles of Association to enable us to make full
use of the fact that our Annual Report is available electronically
on our website. Although we will still continue to send a
printed copy to any shareholder who wants it, we expect that
there are many who have access to the internet and would
prefer to view it online. We estimate that production of our
Annual Report generates a remarkable 15 tonnes of carbon
dioxide (CO
2
) every year because of the quantity that we have
to print and the size of the report, which has grown as a result
of all the regulatory content we are obliged to include. It is also
expensive to print. Hopefully we can reduce its environmental
impact significantly.
Our non-executive directors play a vital role in the
governance of your company. Johnson Matthey has a strong
group of independent directors and we are extremely
fortunate to have the benefit of their knowledge and many
years of experience. Charles Mackay and Mike Dearden will
retire from the board at the end of this financial year on 
31st March 2008. Their considerable contributions will 
be reflected in next year’s Annual Report. Meanwhile on 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
2 Johnson Matthey
Sir John Banham
Chairman 16th April 2007 we announced the appointment of Michael
Roney as a non-executive director of the company with effect
from 1st June 2007. Mr Roney is currently Chief Executive of
Bunzl plc and has many years’ experience of business in 
Latin America, Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
The appointment of Dorothy Thompson as a non-executive
director of the company with effect from 1st September 2007
was announced on 30th May 2007. Mrs Thompson is currently
the Chief Executive of Drax Group plc and has a wealth of
experience in the energy sector as well as in Asia and Africa.
I look forward to their contributions to the work of the board
in the years ahead.
During this, my first full year as Chairman of Johnson
Matthey I have continued to visit many of the company’s
operations around the world. During these visits I never fail to
be impressed by the professionalism, commitment and enthusiasm
of all the Johnson Matthey people that I meet. This reflects the
emphasis that the company places on growing our management
talent and developing the skills of staff at all levels of the
organisation. The investment that we make in this area is vital to
equip your company to meet the challenges of the future and
to ensure that we capitalise on the many exciting opportunities
before us. Over the last few years we have been making major
investments in manufacturing facilities and in developing our
global businesses, particularly in Asia. The continuous
development of our people will be vitally important to the
success of these investments.
On your behalf, I would like to thank all of our people
around the world for their hard work and dedication during
what has undoubtedly been a good year for your company.
In conclusion, your company is in excellent shape and
continues to make good progress towards the delivery of
superior shareholder value. We are very well placed to benefit
from a number of important growth opportunities over the
next few years. I am confident that the company will continue
to produce good growth in the years ahead and I look forward
to reporting on a successful 2007/08.
Sir John Banham
Chairman
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 3
Above: Johnson Matthey’s new catalyst 
manufacturing plant in South Korea will 
begin production during 2007/08.
Above: Research and development at Davy Process
Technology, Stockton-on-Tees, UK.
