 2 Johnson Matthey
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Sir John Banham
Chairman
I am very pleased to report that 2007/08 was another good year for Johnson Matthey.
Your company has continued to build on its strong position in environmental technologies
and is seeing the benefit of the investments that it has made over many years in research
and development and in manufacturing facilities to serve growing markets around the world.
During the year we have continued to make substantial investments to ensure future
growth. These have included new production facilities that have been completed in South
Korea, the Russian Federation and in the UK and the acquisition of Argillon which has
complemented our existing technology for controlling harmful emissions of oxides of
nitrogen, or NOx, from both mobile and stationary sources. This will provide opportunities
in new markets as future legislation focuses on emissions from power generation and
other large scale sources such as ships. As you will read later in this report we have also
announced the construction of additional manufacturing facilities and the expansion of
existing plants to serve growing demand for our high technology products around the world.
Most importantly, the year has seen us continue to make excellent progress towards
achieving the board’s main objective, that of delivering superior value to you, our shareholders.
Catalysed diesel particulate filters. Annual Report & Accounts 2008 3
Your board is fully committed to reporting on Johnson
Matthey’s sustainability performance. In my statement last
year I wrote to you about the work that the management
team had been doing to develop a sustainability strategy
for the company. This year has seen a great deal of work
being undertaken to define our vision for a sustainable
future for our business and to begin to embed this in 
all of our operations around the world. A review of our
performance and activities in this important area during the
year is included in pages 29 to 35 of this Annual Report.
Our first full Sustainability Report will be published on our
website at www.matthey.com this July.
Our non-executive directors play a vital role in the
governance of your company. Johnson Matthey is extremely
fortunate to benefit from the knowledge and many years
of experience of its strong team of independent directors.
During 2007/08 we welcomed two new non-executive
directors to the board, Dorothy Thompson, who is
currently the Chief Executive of Drax Group plc, and
Michael Roney, who is currently Chief Executive of Bunzl
plc. Biographical details of Mrs Thompson and Mr Roney
are presented in the Board of Directors information on
pages 36 and 37 of this Annual Report.
As I announced in my statement last year, Charles
Mackay and Mike Dearden retired from the board on
31st March 2008, having both served nine years as 
non-executive directors of Johnson Matthey. Charles Mackay
joined the board in January 1999 and served as our Senior
Independent Director from July 2003 until his retirement.
He was also Chairman of the Management Development
and Remuneration Committee. Mike Dearden joined the
board in April 1999. During their time on the board
Charles and Mike both made invaluable contributions to
the strategic development of the company as the group
was refocused on its core skills in catalysis, precious metals,
fine chemicals and process technology and emerged as a
world leading speciality chemicals company. We are very
fortunate to have had the benefit of their vast experience
of business in the UK and around the world and we will
miss their strong contribution to the work of the board
and their wise counsel. On behalf of all of us at Johnson
Matthey, I would like to thank both Charles and Mike for
the important contributions that they have made to the
success of Johnson Matthey and to wish them all the very
best for their retirement.
Following Charles Mackay’s retirement, Alan Thomson
has been appointed as Senior Independent Director and
Robert Walvis as Chairman of the Management
Development and Remuneration Committee. Alan Thomson
remains Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Our employees at all levels of the organisation never
fail to impress me with their enthusiasm, professionalism
and dedication. On your behalf, I would like to thank all
of them around the world for their contribution to the
success of the company during the past year.
In conclusion, Johnson Matthey is in excellent shape
and continues to make good progress towards delivering
superior shareholder value. Our strategy has placed us in
a very strong position to maintain growth despite the
challenges presented by the state of many of the world’s
economies. Indeed, I believe that the company is
exceptionally well positioned to make a significant
contribution as rapidly developing economies such as
China and India seek to tackle the major issues that they
face in reducing air pollution and in responding to the
escalating price of oil.
I am confident that Johnson Matthey will continue
to achieve good growth for many years ahead and I look
forward to reporting on further success in 2008/09.
Sir John Banham
Chairman
