 4 Johnson Matthey
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
Neil Carson
Chief Executive
Johnson Matthey performed very well in 2007/08. Revenue and sales excluding precious
metals were more than 20% up on last year at £7.5 billion and £1.8 billion respectively.
Profit before tax and amortisation of acquired intangibles was 16% higher at £265.4 million.
All three of our divisions achieved good results. Our new Environmental Technologies
Division increased its operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangibles by 20%
to £147.3 million. Despite the slowdown in the US economy and the likely impact on the
rest of the world, we believe that the division will continue to deliver strong growth over
the next few years. The division’s Emission Control Technologies (ECT) business
performed very well with sales excluding the value of precious metals 32% up on last
year. This performance was driven by strong growth in sales of catalysts for heavy duty
diesel vehicles, diesel particulate filters in Europe and autocatalysts in Asia. The Process
Technologies business also had a good year. Sales excluding the value of precious metals
were 10% up with high energy prices continuing to underpin demand for our catalysts,
purification materials and process technologies.
Precious Metal Products Division’s operating profit was 20% up at £102.1 million.
The division’s Platinum Marketing and Distribution business achieved strong growth,
benefiting from high platinum group metal (pgm) prices and good demand for the pgms.
Its manufacturing businesses also saw good growth and high metal prices boosted demand
for our pgm recycling services.
Johnson Matthey’s new manufacturing facility and technical centre in South Korea. Annual Report & Accounts 2008 5
Our new Fine Chemicals & Catalysts Division achieved
good growth in 2007/08. Sales rose by 13% and operating
profit by 6% on a constant currency basis to £67.1 million.
The division’s Catalysts and Chemicals business was well ahead
in Asia, particularly in China and India. The Pharmaceutical
Materials businesses achieved steady growth and Research
Chemicals also performed well, particularly in Asia.
The acquisition of Argillon Group, which was concluded
in February 2008 following the receipt of German regulatory
approval, is a further step in our strategy of long term
investment. Argillon brings to the group leading catalyst
technology to control emissions of oxides of nitrogen
(NOx). Its products include catalysts for mobile and
stationary emission control including heavy duty diesel
vehicles, stationary diesel engines, marine applications and
coal, oil and gas fired turbines for power generation. This
acquisition has added to our portfolio of emission control
technologies to meet increasingly challenging regulations to
control harmful NOx emissions. With increasing concern
about the effects of poor air quality on human health and
the environment, legislation to control NOx emissions from
an expanding range of sources will continue to tighten
around the world.
Sustainability 201 7
Johnson Matthey is a world leader in environmental
technologies and with more than 50% of our profits
generated by products that directly benefit the
environment, sustainability is a key element of our strategy
for the future growth of our business. Sustainability is
fundamentally about the best long term way to run a
business. It gives us the opportunity to be more profitable
through being more careful with the world’s resources. For
Johnson Matthey there are two main sustainability thrusts.
The first is about being more efficient with the resources
that we use as a business, the cost of which will inevitably
continue to rise, and the second is about designing new
products that will help our customers to be more
sustainable and competitive.
In December 2007 we launched Sustainability 2017,
a long term vision for the whole group that is playing an
important role in helping all of us at Johnson Matthey to
set our direction and aspirations for what we want to
achieve in the future. Our aims for Sustainability 2017 are
to at least double our earnings per share whilst achieving
zero waste to landfill, zero accidents and halving the key
resources that we consume per unit output by 2017, the
year marking the 200th anniversary of the founding of
the company. This is the first time that we have set out a
vision in this very important area and we wanted it to be
challenging and long term. I know that every member of
the Johnson Matthey team will rise to the challenge.
Outlook
Environmental Technologies achieved strong growth in
2007/08. We are currently seeing a slowdown in the US
economy which might have an adverse effect on growth in
the rest of the world. Despite this more difficult economic
backdrop we still expect Emission Control Technologies
to deliver another year of double digit growth in sales
and profits. Global car sales are expected to grow, with
weakness in the USA more than offset by growth in Asia,
Eastern Europe and South America. In Europe, fitment of
diesel particulate filters will also continue to rise ahead of
the legislation. We expect sales of trucks to grow again in
the USA in the second half of our financial year, particularly
in the final quarter, partly as a result of pre-buying ahead
of the introduction of the next level of emissions legislation.
ECT’s operating profit should also benefit from a continuation
of the improved efficiencies achieved in the second half of
2007/08.
Our Process Technologies business is also experiencing
strong demand, particularly for catalysts for synthesis gas,
methanol, ammonia and hydrogen production. Prospects
for Process Technologies are encouraging, driven by the
very high oil price and the need to make cleaner and more
sophisticated hydrocarbon products from dirtier and more
intractable feedstocks.
Precious Metal Products Division enjoyed strong
growth in 2007/08, benefiting from buoyant trading
conditions in platinum group metals and good growth in its
manufacturing businesses. If the current favourable market
conditions continue we expect the division to show further
growth in 2008/09. Fine Chemicals & Catalysts should
deliver another year of steady growth. Many of the markets
in which the division operates, such as generic
pharmaceuticals, are unlikely to be particularly adversely
affected by a general economic slowdown.
Overall, the group should continue to perform well in
2008/09. Although Johnson Matthey is not immune to the
effects of a recession, prospects for all our businesses are
good, particularly for Environmental Technologies where
global concerns about pollution, climate change and making
the most efficient use of energy resources will continue to
create significant opportunities for future growth.
Neil Carson
Chief Executive
