 Johnson Service Group PLC Chief Executive’s Review
08
Over the last three
years we have
transformed this
long-established
laundry and
drycleaning
company into a
modern and
balanced support
services Group.
The business is
now well equipped to meet the
challenges and opportunities of 
the twenty-first century. We have a
clear mission and vision for the
future, a tight focus on our two core
activities, significantly increased
exposure to growth markets and a
dynamic and supportive corporate
culture. We identified clear strategic
priorities and have delivered all our
objectives to date, while consistently
growing turnover . Most importantly,
we have built up strong management
in depth. This team has significant
capability and capacity to deliver
profitable growth into the future, 
as we exploit the undoubted 
potential of our core skills in both
Britain and Europe.
SGP’s Estates Surveyor Justine Beeson at Top Shop in York
Chief Executive’s Review
JSG028_AR_2005 IFC-09  30/3/06  09:27  Page 08 Chief Executive’s Review    Johnson Service Group PLC  
09
In 2005 we continued to build successfully on the
foundations laid over the previous two years through 
our programme of acquisitions and divestment, the
strengthening of our management and the process of 
top-to-bottom cultural change. The Group is firmly
committed to focusing on two fundamental components
with real growth potential: textile-related services and
facilities management. We have again grown in both these
sectors through a combination of organic development
and acquisition. 
Acquisitions 
The two principal acquisitions made during the year were
in the Corporatewear and Facilities Management
divisions. At the start of the financial year we acquired
the DCC corporatewear business, focusing primarily on
customers in the financial services and leisure sectors,
for a maximum consideration of £23.0 million.  
In October 2005 we bought SGP Property Services,
providing white-collar facilities management to the
financial services, leisure and retail sectors, for a
maximum consideration of £24.8 million.  
Both businesses extended our service offerings and
ideally complemented our established strengths in
corporatewear for retailers and facilities management 
for the commercial office market. Our enlarged business
dedicated to clothing people at work has an annualised
throughput of well over 10 million garments while our
Facilities Management division now provides a greatly
expanded range of services to an even larger number 
of both customers and locations nationally.
Other, smaller acquisitions made during the year were
further bolt-ons to our Corporatewear and Facilities
Management divisions and trade and asset purchases
designed to strengthen Apparelmaster and Stalbridge
while reducing industry overcapacity in their market place.
Investment
During the year we spent £23.2 million on fixed assets 
to enhance efficiency, introduce new technologies and
enlarge our capacity in markets with long-term growth
potential. Our largest single project is the £11 million 
roll-out of an Enterprise Resource Planning system,
which is expected to be largely completed by the end 
of 2006 on budget. This will give us a real competitive
advantage by allowing us to increase efficiency, reduce
costs and ensure operational best practice across the
Group. We have acquired an additional laundry to enable
Stalbridge Linen Services to continue its exemplary
organic growth, and will this year begin construction of 
a new facility for the brand in the East Midlands.
We also saw a marked increase in our rental stock
expenditure, which rose to £24.8 million (2004: 
£19.4 million). This increase was due to the high organic
growth levels experienced at our linen rental business,
Stalbridge, together with the return to growth of our
workwear rental operation, Apparelmaster. Another sign
of the improvement in Apparelmaster’s performance was
that receipts from customers who terminated their
contracts fell to £3.5 million (2004: £5.1 million) as
retention rates improved.
Strategic Overview
JSG028_AR_2005 IFC-09  30/3/06  09:27  Page 09 Johnson Service Group PLC Chief Executive’s Review
10
The Rental division saw an increase in revenues of 13%
(7% excluding acquisitions), consisting of a welcome
stabilisation in Johnsons Apparelmaster revenues and
continued strong growth from Stalbridge Linen Services.
However, adjusted operating profit fell 7% as Johnson
Hospitality Services underperformed during the second
half of the year with sales down 7%.
Johnsons Apparelmaster 
Apparelmaster, the UK leader in the laundering and
rental of workwear, has seen several years of sales
decline. Following significant management effort we
have achieved an improved business performance in
2005, with organic revenues increasing by 2%. Total
revenues rose 4% following the acquisition of customer
contracts from four small competitors who were exiting
the market. This is the first time in several years that we
have achieved a stabilising in revenues, as we
contracted in tandem with a market that has suffered
from the rapid decline in UK manufacturing. 
Strategically we have focused on developing our
turnover with smaller and medium-sized customers in
response to particularly intense price competition for
large national accounts. This approach, together with
continued investment into our sales force and marketing
plans, has resulted in new business sales and our
customer retention rates both improving. We have also
sustained the rate of investment made over the last two
years in the people and infrastructure within the
business. This has enabled us to provide a high quality
and efficient service to our customers, while maintaining
a low cost base. This action, together with the
acquisitions, has enabled us to improve the total
operating profit margin from 13.3% to 13.9%. 
Rental
David Toon
Executive Director
Rental and Corporatewear
The cleanroom at Apparelmaster’s Exeter facility 
which cleans workwear for the food industry
JSG028_AR_2005 p10-23  30/3/06  09:29  Page 10 Chief Executive’s Review    Johnson Service Group PLC  
11
It is expected that the operating profit margin will be
under pressure during 2006 as the cost increases we
are experiencing are unlikely to be totally matched by
price rises.
In January 2006 Rentokil Initial announced the closure
of its UK linen and workwear operations. We are actively
marketing to the customers that it is intending to stop
servicing with some success. In addition, the processing
capacity that will be closing may help the industry
achieve greater price stability.
Stalbridge Linen Services and 
Johnson Hospitality Services (JHS)
Stalbridge again achieved excellent organic revenue
growth of 28% in the premium hotel, catering and
corporate hospitality sector, where it is the market
leader. These remarkable results have been achieved
against at best a broadly inert marketplace, which
makes the performance even more impressive. Total
revenues increased by 46% following the strategic
acquisitions of businesses in Winchester and Essex,
which increase our geographic coverage. The operating
margin decreased from 15.5% to 12.8% as expected,
following the acquisitions and the increased investment
in operational and management infrastructure required
to support future growth. Further expansion is planned
in 2006, when we will begin construction of a new state-
of-the-art laundry facility in the East Midlands. Business
has grown in all parts of the country, supported by
innovative marketing that is recognised as the best in
the industry, and by successful new product launches.
Very high levels of customer retention again
complemented an exceptional new business sales
performance. Indeed, the company prides itself in its 
‘no contract’ offering, based on our confidence that
customers will receive service levels far in excess of
those offered elsewhere. 
JHS is the market leader in the provision of furniture
and catering equipment to the contract catering market.
Following a disappointing trading performance during
the second half of the year JHS was merged under the
Stalbridge management team, though they remain as
separate customer-facing brands. This integration was
designed to enhance service, maximise cross-selling
opportunities and realise operational and distribution
efficiencies and cost savings. The new management
Stalbridge Linen Services provides table linen
for Nunsmere Hall Hotel near Chester
team is also working to develop a flexible cost base that
more appropriately reflects the seasonal pattern of
demand. We also embarked on a rationalisation of the
JHS branch network, with three locations closing in
2005 and a further closure planned in the current year,
when we will also be relocating the head office to new
premises in Buckingham. We have expanded and
radically altered the JHS sales function to focus on the
business-to-business market, and to ensure that we
leverage the strong cross-selling opportunities with
Stalbridge. We remain convinced that the combined JHS
and Stalbridge offering is a robust business model and
we have already seen an improvement in the
performance of JHS in 2006.
JSG028_AR_2005 p10-23  30/3/06  09:29  Page 11 Johnson Service Group PLC Chief Executive’s Review
12
Clothing for people at work
The Corporatewear Division saw revenue growth of 132%
and adjusted operating profit growth of 178% over the
year, largely due to our acquisition activity during 2004
and the start of 2005. Excluding the acquisitions we still
saw good organic revenue growth of 10%. The five
acquired businesses complemented our existing
company, CCM, and achieved our aim of creating the UK’s
clear market leader in the supply of high quality
corporate clothing. 
The market for corporatewear is continuing to grow
strongly and has significant further potential. Over half
the workers in the US wear corporate uniforms. In the UK
penetration is under 40%, and on the Continent it is
below 20%. As the market leader in Britain and one of
the largest suppliers in Europe, we are well placed to
benefit from the development potential this affords.
Our strategy is to capitalise on the individual strengths of
the various businesses we have acquired, which all have
strong brands and close customer relationships built on
specialist knowledge of distinct market sectors. This
enables us to provide our customers with the focus that
they demand. At the same time, we have been able to
leverage our Group scale in worldwide sourcing to reduce
product costs and improve quality, while enhancing
efficiency and service levels through the integration of
back office functions. These efficiencies have seen the
operating margin of the division increase from 11% to
13%. Management has been unified under a
Corporatewear board to ensure that we exploit potential
synergies and cross-selling opportunities to the full.
All our brands achieved good organic growth during the
year . Dimensions, which is primarily focused on large, blue
chip retail customers, has continued to develop its enviable
client list, which includes Tesco, Sainsbury’s, Waitrose,
Marriott hotels, Marks & Spencer and Boots. 
DCC mainly serves the financial services sector , where its
clients include HSBC, Lloyds TSB and Royal Bank of
Scotland. Our workwear brand CCM continued to exceed
our expectations, achieving organic revenue growth of 7%. 
Dimensions supplies corporatewear for Boots
Corporatewear
JSG028_AR_2005 p10-23  30/3/06  09:29  Page 12 Chief Executive’s Review    Johnson Service Group PLC  
13
Wessex provides clothing for 
Surrey Ambulance Service NHS Trust
We have also developed a public services offering with
Yaffy, focusing on high quality police outerwear, and
Wessex, providing clothing for ambulance staff. 
These were complemented by the £4.0 million acquisition
in April 2005 of Boyd Cooper, a supplier of nurses’
uniforms. All these businesses have performed well and
are benefiting from being part of a larger organisation.
Across the business we are experiencing good growth that
reflects the strength of our customer relationships and the
high quality of our newer and more comprehensive
catalogue offering. Our skills in design and logistics
enable us to provide even the largest corporations with
comprehensive management of their clothing brand
images. In addition, the substantially increased
throughput coupled with our procurement experience 
is resulting in savings of £3 million per annum in the
sourcing of new garments. Many of these savings will be
passed onto customers, but together with our other skills
they have contributed to a number of notable business
gains during the year, such as Group4Securicor, Post
Office Counters, Mothercare and Alliance Pharmacy.
2006 has already started strongly with two major pan-
European contracts being secured as well as Virgin
Atlantic Airways being won as a new customer.
David Toon
Executive Director
Rental and Corporatewear
JSG028_AR_2005 p10-23  30/3/06  09:29  Page 13 Johnson Service Group PLC Chief Executive’s Review
14
Our market-leading retail drycleaning business, which
operates under the Johnsons, Sketchley and Jeeves
brands, was affected by the general reduction in
consumer spending on the high street throughout 2005.
Although overall revenue of the division that includes
Alex Reid, rose 4% to £101 million, we saw like for like
shop sales fall by 2.7% during the year. We took a range
of actions to reduce costs, which resulted in the
operating margin of the retail business improving from
3.8% in the first half of the year to 7.7% in the second
half, without compromising quality.
During the year Johnsons Cleaners opened 13 new
concessions within Sainsbury’s stores, and four new
drive-in sites at Sutton Coldfield, Plymouth, Winchester
and St Austell. We also acquired four independent shops
and closed 31 underperforming branches, giving us a
total of 587 units at the year end. A further 60 branches
were converted to the environmentally friendly
GreenEarth® cleaning process during the year, extending
the technology to 230 locations.
Our Priority Club is continuing to expand, and at the 
year end reached a total of 520,000 active members. 
In the final months of the year we began a co-ordinated
marketing drive designed to increase customer numbers
and the frequency of their visits.
Following a full staff survey and independent consumer
research, comprehensive change plans have been
developed to raise the profile of our shops and further
improve the effectiveness of our marketing. We have also
begun trialling a range of innovative services designed to
enhance our convenience to customers, including 
24-hour drop-off boxes for depositing drycleaning, 
Drycleaning
David Bryant
Executive Director
Drycleaning
A drive-in drycleaning shop in Congleton
JSG028_AR_2005 p10-23  30/3/06  09:29  Page 14 Chief Executive’s Review    Johnson Service Group PLC  
15
and a home and office collection and delivery service. 
In line with this strategic priority, the focus of our future
branch opening plans will be on the acquisition of highly
accessible and convenient drive-in sites.
The trading performance of Jeeves of Belgravia, 
our luxury brand, steadily improved during the year, 
as we began to see the results of increasing customer
recognition of our investment in both technology and
people. We are confident that further improvements will
be achieved in the current year, when we plan to launch
an exciting new brand design.
Alex Reid, our business which is the leading supplier of
consumables to the drycleaning industry, performed well
in holding revenue and profits steady despite the tough
market conditions experienced during the year. In August
2005 we strengthened the business by acquiring
Firbimatic UK, a market leader in the supply and servicing
of drycleaning machinery and ancillary equipment.
Excellent progress has been made in developing cross-
selling opportunities and capitalising on the synergies
available. 
As the European Master Licence holder, Alex Reid has
actively promoted the operational and marketing
advantages of the environmentally preferable
GreenEarth® cleaning system process to drycleaners
across the EU. Although poor market conditions have
limited investment by potential customers, sales were
encouraging in the latter part of the year.
In addition to the trading activities outlined above, the
Drycleaning segmental results include £1.8 million 
(2004: £1.4 million) of profit from the disposal of
freehold properties and other non-trading income. 
A similar income is expected during 2006. 
The Drycleaning business benefits from a property
portfolio that extends to around 90 freehold sites. 
If these sites were leasehold and charged at a market
rent to the division, the operating profit of the retail
business would be approximately £1.6 million 
(2004: £1.7 million) lower.
David Bryant
Executive Director
Drycleaning
Jeeves of Belgravia provides a home collection
and delivery service in London
JSG028_AR_2005 p10-23  30/3/06  09:29  Page 15 Johnson Service Group PLC Chief Executive’s Review
16
Organic revenue growth of 5% was supported by the
acquisitions of Acame in January and SGP Property
Services (SGP) in October 2005. These helped our
Facilities Management division grow total revenues
(excluding costs recharged to customers) by 57% and
adjusted operating profit by 144%, with the margin
moving from 6.1% to 9.4%.
SGP specialises in the provision of property management
services to the financial, leisure and retail sectors, ideally
complementing Johnson Workplace Management (JWM),
our existing facilities management business, which is
focused primarily in the commercial office market. Both
share the ‘white collar’ model of facilities management,
subcontracting lower-value commodity services. The
acquisition gives us significantly enhanced scale in this
market, enabling us to offer a more complete service to
potential customers. 
SGP has met all our expectations since acquisition, and has
enjoyed outstanding year-on-year growth. Strong sales
progress was achieved both organically with established
clients, and through a number of business gains with
leading national retailers and financial service companies. 
SGP provides a full range of property management
services structured into three key profit centres:
Technical, Property and Maintenance. Technical
comprises building services, project management, health
and safety, surveying and construction services and
procurement. In Property, we provide asset and
investment management, landlord and tenant services,
portfolio and property management, retail agency
services and advice on rating and service charges. 
Facilities Management
Workplace Engineering personnel installing
network infrastructure
Simon Moate
Executive Director
Facilities Management
JSG028_AR_2005 p10-23  30/3/06  09:29  Page 16 Chief Executive’s Review    Johnson Service Group PLC  
17
Our Maintenance centre operates a state-of-the-art
24/7 /365 helpdesk which handles roughly 750,000 
calls each year, and is recognised as the market leader 
in this sector.
There is already an encouraging new business pipeline
with both existing and potential new clients. This is aided
by the current retail downturn, which is a positive
environment for selling the outsourced services that we
offer. Although we will exploit the synergies available in
procurement we intend to maintain the distinctive
strengths of our two customer-facing brands.
JWM has achieved good organic growth of 5%, with a
number of new three-year contracts being recently awarded
by existing clients in the pharmaceuticals, electronics and
telecoms sectors. We have also gained a number of new
clients in both the public and private sectors. At the same
time, we have again been successful in reducing costs
through the delivery of improved operational efficiencies.
Continuing investment in staff training and development
programmes has played a key role in reinforcing our
position as the UK’s premier provider of outsourced
facility management services. 
Workplace Engineering is our new brand for the delivery
of hi-tech electrical, engineering and project fit-out
services. It brings together two recently acquired
businesses, Ace (Ascot) and Acame, both of which
achieved significant growth in 2005 through a
combination of open market tenders and referrals from
JWM. Their integration has now been completed,
providing further efficiencies and cost savings and
enabling us to take full advantage of the continuing
opportunities in this buoyant sector.
The continuing development of new management
processes, supported by integrated IT solutions, will
ensure that we remain at the forefront in delivering
leading edge facilities management services to a
broadening market place.
Simon Moate
Executive Director 
Facilities Management
Workplace Management provides facilities management services to
Enham Alamein – the charity for disabled persons
JSG028_AR_2005 p10-23  30/3/06  09:29  Page 17 Johnson Service Group PLC Chief Executive’s Review
18
I would like to thank my colleagues in management and 
all employees for their contribution to the Group as a
whole and for their part in the achievements in the year
under review.
We have made good progress towards our strategic
objectives of creating a dynamic, empowered culture 
in which all our people are motivated to exceed our
customers’ expectations and are properly rewarded for
success. This has made an important contribution to
meeting our performance targets for the Group over the
last year as we seek to ensure that the interests of all
our people are aligned with those of our Shareholders 
as a whole.
People and Culture
We remain totally committed to fulfilling our Corporate
Social Responsibility to the environment and the wider
community. During the year we were pleased to have this
commitment recognised by confirmation of our
membership of the FTSE4GOOD Index, and admission to
the Kempen/SNS Smaller Europe SRI Index of socially
responsible companies.
The Group Environmental Committee has continued to
play a critical role in monitoring and mitigating risk
across the Group, and in driving improvements to the
environmental friendliness of our plants and processes. 
A particularly important contribution has been made by
the continued roll-out of the GreenEarth® cleaning
system in our own drycleaning business and across
Europe under our Master Licence. This technology
replaces traditional chlorinated or hydrocarbon based
solvents with a process based on siloxane. This degrades
rapidly after use to harmless silica and does not 
bio-accumulate. 
We attach great importance to our written code of
business ethics, which sets out clear guidelines for all
staff to ensure that the Group meets the highest
standards of conduct in business dealings. 
The Community and 
the Environment
GreenEarth® drycleaning is odour free and 
kinder to the environment
JSG028_AR_2005 p10-23  30/3/06  09:29  Page 18 Chief Executive’s Review    Johnson Service Group PLC  
19
Over the last three years we have made solid,
incremental progress in building a managed services
Group that is equipped to deliver sustained growth at
both the top and bottom line. We have sold
underperforming and volatile businesses, and invested 
in those with more predictable revenues and genuine
growth potential. All of our operations are either clear
market leaders or in positions of real strength.
Management capabilities have been greatly enhanced,
including the recruitment of a number of senior people
with experience of markets outside the UK. Our excellent
team has been supported by the roll-out of state-of-the-
art IT systems, while our people have been empowered,
motivated and rewarded for their successes. Together
these actions give us a real competitive edge.
I am confident that Johnson Service Group has the 
right combination of material, intellectual and cultural
resources to continue delivering our proven strategy 
and to generate value for Shareholders.
Stuart Graham
Chief Executive
13th March 2006
The Future
We pay close attention to the standards observed by our
major overseas garment suppliers, with whom we have
agreed a written code of conduct. Compliance with this is
monitored through regular factory visits.
The Group also seeks to fulfil its social responsibilities by
supporting good causes. Last year we made charitable
donations to Macmillan Cancer Relief, the NSPCC and the
RNLI, while the Johnson Group Cleaners Charity has
continued to support a range of registered charities
targeted at improving the well-being of the sick and
underprivileged.
JSG028_AR_2005 p10-23  30/3/06  09:29  Page 19
