 Johnson Service Group PLC  Annual Report 2007
04
In my position as interim Chief Executive Officer, my remit  
is to implement a recovery plan for the Group. Our main 
businesses continue to perform well and now have the ability 
to take advantage of market opportunities, despite having 
suffered a period of uncertainty during the renegotiation  
of bank facilities over the last six months.  
Since joining the Group at the end of 2007, I have visited all 
of the operations and have been impressed with the quality 
of each of the businesses and in particular by the operational 
management of each division. During the past few months  
I have been working with the Executive Management team  
and our advisers to assess the opportunities available to the 
Group to reduce the level of debt. The announcement made  
on 11th April 2008 regarding the sale of the Corporatewear 
division, which has now been completed, and the new banking 
facilities agreed with our banks, will allow us to concentrate  
on maximising the potential of our three remaining divisions; 
Textile Rental, Drycleaning and Facilities Management.
The Division, which comprises Johnsons Apparelmaster and 
Stalbridge Linen Services has increased revenue and adjusted 
operating profit compared to 2006. The benefit of the Texicare 
acquisition in January 2007 together with some organic growth 
at Apparelmaster has resulted in increased revenue of 3.0% to 
£129.0 million and this, together with improvements at Stalbridge, 
has increased adjusted operating profit by 19.8% to £10.9 million. 
The adjusted operating margin increased from 7.3% in 2006 to 
8.4% in 2007. This was achieved despite increased energy and 
fuel costs and the continuing restructuring programme at our 
Stalbridge business. 
 Johnsons Apparelmaster
Johnsons Apparelmaster, the market-leading workwear laundering 
and rental business, has achieved a further year of organic growth 
with a 2.8% increase in its core recurring revenue despite difficult 
trading conditions. Revenue increased by 7.3% to £92.6 million 
and adjusted operating profit by 1.7% to £11.9 million.
The business performed well against its peer group and we saw the 
withdrawal of several market participants. This has enabled us to 
increase our share of the workwear market to approximately 33%.
Texicare was acquired by Johnsons Apparelmaster in January 
2007 for £3 million, providing a base in the North of Lancashire 
from which to service customers in Northern England. Texicare 
added a further 120 employees and almost £4 million of revenue 
to the Group along with two processing facilities, food and 
engineering, which have the ability to process approximately 
60,000 pieces per week. The successful integration of Texicare 
represents a model for future consolidation of this market.
Our annual independent Customer Satisfaction Survey reported 
that the overall level of customer satisfaction had increased 
for the fourth consecutive year to 81.3% in 2007 from 80% in 
2006 and our satisfaction level with new customers remains at 
an even higher level of 84.7%. These successes are due to our 
commitment to investing in the future. We listen to customers, 
train and develop our employees and utilise technology to 
increase efficiency. 
Chief Executive’s Review
John Talbot
Interim Chief Executive Officer
Overview Textile Rental Johnson Service Group PLC  Annual Report 2007 
05
During the year we have continued to invest in plant infrastructure 
to drive efficiencies in the business. We opened a ‘Gold Standard’ 
food plant in Leeds at a cost of £0.8 million in order to enhance 
service to large national food production customers, following  
on from the successful commissioning of a food plant in 
Basingstoke towards the end of 2006. We also moved our Head 
Office into a new facility in Fulwood, near Preston. In anticipation 
of further increases in energy costs, we are implementing a 
renewed energy efficiency programme. There will be some 
benefit from lower garment prices following the signing of a  
new supply contract with the purchaser of the former CCM 
garment business, which was sold by the Group in March 2008.
We plan to further grow our market share by developing our 
Customer Relationship Management programme, enhancing 
our employee training programmes, further developing our 
IT systems and, in the medium term, identifying suitable 
acquisition opportunities. We also intend to increase our return 
on investment by driving efficiencies throughout the business. 
Despite increased energy costs, we believe that the outlook  
for the business is positive and it will continue its strong  
cash generation.
 Stalbridge Linen Services
Stalbridge Linen Services supplies linen to the catering and 
corporate hospitality markets, a key service within Textile Rental. 
Stalbridge commenced a strategic realignment of its business 
at the beginning of 2007 by disposing of its high volume, low 
margin hotel linen business in order to return to its core strength 
as the major supplier to the premium markets of chefswear and 
restaurant and catering linen. As part of this process, its new 
high volume facility at Hinckley has, at the start of 2008, been 
transferred to replace an outdated facility and meet demand  
at Johnsons Apparelmaster. As a consequence revenue fell by 
11.6% to £36.4 million and adjusted operating loss reduced by 
49% to £2.0 million.
Stalbridge is working more closely with Johnsons Apparelmaster 
under a common divisional head and our logistics team has  
re-planned the Stalbridge sites from which customers are 
serviced to improve efficiencies and the carbon footprint of  
the business further. We are investigating further opportunities 
to benefit from operational synergies which are likely to include 
common IT systems.
Whilst the full restructuring programme has yet to be completed, 
the business has successfully reduced its levels of loss in the 
second half of 2007 compared to the first six months, and we  
are confident about the outlook for Stalbridge. Johnson Service Group PLC  Annual Report 2007
06
Chief Executive’s Review – Continued
Our retail drycleaning division includes Johnson Cleaners  
and Jeeves of Belgravia together with Alex Reid, which supplies 
consumables to drycleaning and related businesses. Johnson 
Cleaners is recognised as the UK’s number one drycleaner  
by volume and value. It is a trusted national brand that cleans 
over 15 million garments per annum.
Total revenue of the division decreased by 4.6% to £94.6 
million from £99.2 million in 2006 and adjusted operating profit 
decreased by 34.1% to £6.0 million from £9.1 million in 2006, 
largely due to the performance of Alex Reid. In addition, the 
increase in rent of £0.9 million paid on our drycleaning units 
following the sale and leaseback of property undertaken in  
June 2006 was a contributory factor.
 Johnson Cleaners and Jeeves of Belgravia
Johnson Cleaners and Jeeves of Belgravia revenue decreased  
by 1.2% on a like-for-like basis to £82.8 million (2006: £86.5 
million) and adjusted operating profit by 2.9% to £6.6 million. 
Management continue to address the impact of the decline  
in retail spending and the smoking ban by tight cost control, 
value-based promotional activity to drive volume and by 
developing a broader service offering. 
We are also continuing our drive to reposition the store  
portfolio to convenient locations and to develop strategic 
partnerships with supermarkets. We opened four new branches 
within Sainsbury and Waitrose stores and three Drive-ins at 
Orpington, Shepherds Hill (Reading) and Radcliffe (Manchester). 
We closed 17 branches in locations that were not deemed  
suitable to support ongoing business.
We have continued to grow our Priority Club membership, 
increasing our loyal customer base by 50,000 members in the 
year to some 525,000. Membership of the Priority Club requires 
the customer to pay an annual fee which in return offers them 
additional benefits and discounts at Johnson Cleaners.
It is a number of years now since the “ Johnsonisation” 
programme was completed and a large percentage of the store 
portfolio is in need of refurbishment. 2007 saw us begin the 
“Evolution” programme with eight trial stores testing new 
fascias, point of sale and instore concepts. The trials provided the 
evidence required to commence a roll out and over the next three 
years it is planned that 70 stores per year will be “Evolutionised”.
We have broadened our specialist service offering with 
promotions for wedding dresses, curtains, duvets and leather 
cleaning. Johnson Fabric Restoration Services (JFRS), our start 
up business, launched a new service offering first aid for textiles 
and leather. JFRS is the first national fabric restoration service 
to work with insurers and specialist restoration contractors to 
provide a process that restores fabrics affected by fire and flood.
In recent years, there have been comparatively low barriers 
to entry to the drycleaning market, but this is changing due to 
more stringent environmental regulations such as the Solvent 
Emissions Directive. We believe we are ideally placed to benefit 
from these changes in a market of which we have a share of 
approximately 25%. Johnson Service Group owns exclusive UK 
rights to the GreenEarth
®
 technology which gives significant 
process and environmental advantages over traditional 
drycleaning methods, and we have already converted  
almost half of our stores to this technology. 
Drycleaning Johnson Service Group PLC  Annual Report 2007 
07
Our scale means that we have far greater resources and  
expertise than our competitors to implement and build on  
these changes. We are developing a Carbon Policy in conjunction 
with the Carbon Trust, where we will not only measure our 
footprint, but take measures to reduce it, therefore improving  
our “Green” credentials. 
Jeeves of Belgravia, our respected luxury brand and holder  
of the Royal Warrant for H.R.H. the Prince of Wales, offers 
premium quality services to customers including haute-couture 
houses and a wide range of individuals seeking a bespoke  
service. Jeeves has continued to perform well, benefiting  
from a clear focus on quality, people and technology. 
Our ongoing strategy for our Drycleaning business is to  
reposition our store portfolio over the coming years so that  
our locations are all sited to provide optimum convenience  
for our customers. 
We continue to work closely with our supermarket partners  
and have a number of Sainsbury units planned to open in  
2008, alongside new Drive-in locations which are already 
identified. This strategy will reposition the store portfolio in key 
locations, whilst the core estate extends its range of services  
and works towards driving volume through a value proposition.
Evolution will enhance the brand image, and an accelerated 
rollout of GreenEarth
®
 will be a key differentiator in the 
drycleaning market place.
 Alex Reid
Alex Reid, our specialist drycleaning supplies business,  
traded disappointingly in what has been a difficult year for  
the drycleaning industry. However, despite a reduction in the  
sales of consumables, we have experienced a growth in the  
sales of Firbimatic GreenEarth
®
 drycleaning machines as 
operators adopt this new technology. 
Revenue decreased to £11.8 million from £12.7 million in 2006 
with an adjusted operating loss of £0.6 million from £1.3 million 
profit in 2006. 
The business is currently profitable and we are exploring 
opportunities to improve the trading performance.
The Facilities Management division includes Johnson Facilities 
Management and Workplace Engineering. Revenue for the 
division was 9.9% lower at £93.2 million (2006: £103.4 million) 
whilst revenue, excluding costs recharged to customers, was 1.9% 
lower at £52.1 million (2006: £53.1 million). Adjusted operating 
profit reduced by 21.3% to £5.9 million (2006: £7.5 million).
 Johnson Facilities Management
Johnson Facilities Management (JFM) completed 2007 with a 
strong second half trading performance and achieved additional 
fee income from the previously anticipated loss of a major 
contract that is now being undertaken in-house by the customer. 
Revenue excluding costs recharged to customers increased 
to £40.5 million (£39.0 million in 2006), while total revenue 
decreased to £81.6 million from £89.3 million in 2006. Adjusted 
operating profit decreased to £5.6 million in 2007 from £6.0 
million in 2006. This was a commendable performance at a time 
of considerable upheaval caused by the integration of the two 
business components.
The business was formed by the merger of SGP, which was 
acquired in 2005 and specialises in the provision of property 
management services to the financial, retail and leisure sectors, 
with Johnson Workplace Management, which is focused 
primarily on the commercial office market in both the public 
and private sectors. SGP has grown rapidly and profitably since 
its formation in 2000 and it continues to attract new customers 
at an impressive rate. Its customer-facing strengths are well 
complemented by the sound operating skills of Workplace 
Management. The integration of these businesses has been 
completed during 2007. 
These businesses provide essential services to major British 
corporations and institutions. They have strong positions in 
markets with high barriers to entry, excellent earnings visibility 
and represent an exciting platform for growth. They provide  
a unique service offering and strength in the retail market,  
of which we have a 22% share of our chosen market. 
JFM has already won and mobilised two small contracts during 
2008 and is engaged in on-going discussions with a number  
of blue chip prospective customers. 
F acilities Management Johnson Service Group PLC  Annual Report 2007
08
Chief Executive’s Review – Continued
The sale of the Corporatewear division, the leading UK supplier  
of clothing for people at work, was completed on 28th April 2008 
for cash consideration on completion of £82.5 million.
The Corporatewear division had also historically included CCM 
which supplied workwear garments to the rental business of 
Johnsons Apparelmaster and to third party customers. One of 
CCM’s major external contracts was lost towards the end of 2007 
and the balance of this workwear operation was reorganised  
and then sold. The sale of CCM was announced and completed  
in March 2008, for an initial cash consideration of £2.6 million. 
In 2007, the Division saw increased revenue and adjusted 
operating profit compared to 2006. Strong sales in the second 
half of the year resulted in an increase in revenue of 7.5% to £89.3 
million and an increase in adjusted operating profit by 4.9% to 
£12.9 million. This included a contribution of £2.2 million from CCM.
During 2007 the integration plan for the support functions of 
the division continued. Design, technical and sourcing were 
consolidated centrally whilst maintaining the individual market 
positions of our six business brands. Wessex Textiles, specialising 
in ambulance and paramedic clothing, was integrated into 
Dimensions Corporatewear with significant cost savings.
During the year, the growth of the Division was accelerated by the 
winning of the UK’s largest ever outsourced Corporate Clothing 
contract, worth approximately £8 million per annum. 
Our strategy is to continue to build our market leading 
property service business by focusing on our core capabilities 
of IT, procurement and management to make significant 
improvements in underlying organic growth and profits. This  
will be achieved by targeting growth into higher margin service 
lines and by becoming the dominant player in the provision of 
retail maintenance, retail rating and service charge activities. 
For 2008, the service charge and agency businesses have  
been considerably strengthened with leading industry  
expertise brought into JFM, and early indications are for  
a growth year in this business activity.
 Workplace Engineering
Workplace Engineering, which provides electrical, engineering 
and fit-out services, had revenue of £11.6 million (2006: £14.1 
million) and adjusted operating profit of £0.5 million (2006: 
£1.3 million). The business was impacted by the loss of a major 
Facilities Management contract referred to above but its 
management has succeeded in refocusing the business and 
winning new contracts.
Corporatewear Johnson Service Group PLC  Annual Report 2007 
09
 Corporate Social Responsibility
The Johnson Service Group is acutely aware of its responsibilities 
to the communities in which it operates, and from which both its 
customers and employees are drawn. 
We are committed to progressively embedding Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR) best practice into every aspect of 
our operations. We endeavour to manage these in a responsible 
manner, believing that sound and demonstrable performance  
in relation to CSR policies and practices is a fundamental part  
of business success. 
The Group is committed to continuous improvement in its CSR 
program and encourages its operating businesses and partners 
to strive for heightened performance. In support of this, Johnson 
Service Group has adopted the Business in the Community 
model of CSR, focusing in the areas of Workplace, Community, 
Environment and Marketplace.
The Solvent Emissions Directive that came into being during 
2006, mandated that all processing drycleaning units would 
have to obtain a permit from their Local Authority to continue 
operating. The Johnson Cleaners branches liaise with Local 
Authorities and make every effort to comply with the Solvent 
Emissions Directive.
The roll-out of our GreenEarth
®
 programme continued during 
the year and by the end of March 2008, 247 Johnsons Cleaners 
branches were using the new technology. GreenEarth
®
 is 
environmentally, as well as technically, a far more preferable 
option than alternative drycleaning solvents. 
All Apparelmaster sites are now accredited with the 
Environmental Management standard ISO 14001. Johnson 
Workplace Management is similarly accredited. As part of  
the on-going development of our workwear rental businesses, 
considerable investment has been made on the installation  
of energy and wastewater recycling systems. 
Environmental legislation and best practice is constantly  
changing and the Group ensures that it remains aware of 
legislative developments and proposals which may have  
an impact on the Group’s activities in the future. 
We have started to gather the requisite information in order  
that in the future we will be in a position to report more fully 
on the Group’s environmental impact and on the total carbon 
emissions from the business. 
We attach great importance to our written code of business 
ethics, which sets out clear guidelines for all staff to ensure that 
the Group meets the highest standards of conduct in business 
dealings. We pay close attention to the standards observed by  
our major overseas garment suppliers, with whom we have 
agreed a written code of conduct. Compliance with this is 
monitored through regular factory visits. 
The Group also seeks to fulfill its social responsibilities by 
supporting good causes. Last year we made charitable donations 
to various charities including Macmillan Cancer Relief while the 
Johnson Group Cleaners Charity has continued to support  
a range of registered charities targeted at improving the  
well-being of the sick and underprivileged.
 The Future
I see the agreement of bank facilities and the reduction in our 
borrowing as being key steps in the rehabilitation of the Group. 
Our businesses are strong and well managed and our focus will 
be on incentivising and motivating management, allowing them 
to focus on building our businesses without the distractions that 
the problems of the last 12 months have caused. We expect to 
produce a satisfactory result in 2008. 
John Talbot 
Interim Chief Executive Officer 
29th April 2008
