 16 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Johnston Press  Annual Report & Accounts 2002
LIFE IS LOCAL … STRATEGIC FOCUS
The theme, which is illustrated in these
accounts, again emphasises the essential
dependence of our business on the local
nature of our markets. Our publishing
activities are a reflection of numerous local
economies across the United Kingdom and,
in turn, the behaviour of local consumers
and advertisers. During the year, consumer
confidence at the local level remained
positive, undoubtedly assisted by low levels
of inflation and unemployment, reduced
interest rates and the buoyancy of the
property market. With some local variations,
this has been reflected in continued modest
advertising growth for the Group as a whole.
It is this dependence on local markets
which differentiates the regional and local
press from so many other branches of the
media and which has enabled Johnston
Press to grow in terms of profit and
margins during 2002. The Group enjoys a
leading position in almost all of its local
markets and this enables our companies
to offer readers extensive local news
coverage and advertisers high levels of
local market penetration.
This focus on meeting the needs of local
marketplaces is the cornerstone of the
Group’s business strategy. Through a
combination of organic and acquisitive
means, Johnston Press is committed to
building on its position as one of the UK’s
market leading local publishers. This was
clearly demonstrated by our purchase of
RIM but, although the Group remains
actively interested in further acquisitive
growth, this will only be pursued on a
selective basis. For this reason, we
decided not to make an offer for the
newspaper titles owned by Scottish Media
Group plc, since we did not believe that,
for Johnston Press, they represented the
right opportunity at the right time.
MEDIA OWNERSHIP
Publication of the Government’s draft
Communications Bill has put the whole
question of media ownership and related
newspaper transfers firmly on the political
agenda. This is to be welcomed as the
special newspaper provisions of the 1973
Fair Trading Act are long outdated and
unduly onerous. This has been recognised
by the Government in their stated intention
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
During a year in which Johnston Press again outperformed market
expectations, the undoubted highlight was the successful acquisition of
Regional Independent Media Holdings Limited (RIM), consolidating the
Group’s position as one of the UK’s four leading publishers of regional
and local newspapers. In contrast to the difficulties encountered by
many media businesses, the enlarged Group achieved modest
advertising revenue growth in the year. Coupled with the early benefits
of the RIM acquisition, continued tight control of costs and reduced
newsprint prices, this enabled the Group to make further excellent
progress and to report increased levels of profitability. 
to adopt a deregulatory approach and
their proposals do include the welcome
abolition of compulsory advance ministerial
consent to newspaper transfers, backed
by criminal sanction.
We are currently engaged in a process of
lobbying and consultation to ensure that
the eventual legislation does deliver the
deregulation which the Government has
promised. In particular, we are concerned
that the operation of the proposed
exceptional public interest test for
newspaper mergers will perversely result in
a more uncertain and rigorous regime than
is currently the case. We are also
concerned at the extent of the proposed
involvement of OFCOM in newspaper
transfers. We regard it as particularly
important that the Government lives up to
its assurances that OFCOM will have no
part to play in industry self-regulation for
editorial or advertising content as
exercised through the Press Complaints
Commission and the Advertising
Standards Authority respectively. 17 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Johnston Press  Annual Report & Accounts 2002
We remain firmly of the view that further
industry consolidation is both desirable
and inevitable, being one of the key
determinants in ensuring the continuance
of a healthy and vibrant UK regional press.
Following the disappointing Competition
Commission inquiry into our proposal to
acquire eight free newspapers from Trinity
Mirror, we have made the DTI aware of our
detailed concerns in an effort to help the
regulators better understand the way in
which our markets operate, particularly
with regard to market definition, the
existence of competition from other forms
of advertising media and ease of market
entry. We remain confident that the
regulatory environment, including changes
brought by the Communications Bill, will
permit a continuation of the consolidation
process, one in which Johnston Press
expects to play a leading role.
REGIONAL INDEPENDENT MEDIA (RIM)
The acquisition of RIM has consolidated
the position of Johnston Press as one of
the four leading UK regional publishers
with a market share of 14.3% of total
copies circulated. With 244 titles,
Johnston Press now has more
newspapers than any other UK regional
publisher and is the largest owner of paid-
for weeklies which represent half of the
Group’s portfolio. The ex-RIM titles include
a strong mix of market leading paid-for
daily, weekly and free newspapers
representing an excellent complement to
the Group’s existing publications. As a
result, Johnston Press is now the market
leading regional newspaper publisher in
Yorkshire, has acquired an extensive
presence in Lancashire and has made a
useful addition to our existing Scottish
businesses.
The post-acquisition integration process 
is now substantially complete although
there will be continuing benefits as 
we progressively take advantage of
opportunities at the operating level. 
The key changes were achieved rapidly
following completion of the deal and
included closure of the RIM head office,
termination of advisory arrangements,
savings on newsprint as well as other
major purchase items and closure or
rationalisation of the RIM central functions
of accounting, payroll, marketing, IT,
national sales, personnel, training and new
media. The resultant loss of approximately
250 jobs was minimised following
extensive consultation with those affected.
Several non-core activities have been
disposed of including Writers News, a
specialist publication for aspiring authors.
We also sold four Scottish-based
newspaper titles which did not represent a
good fit with our existing activities. The
Stornoway, Galloway and Carrick Gazettes
were sold to Scottish Radio Holdings plc
and the Alloa-based Wee County News to
its management. During the year, we also
took steps to withdraw from all RIM local
radio initiatives, leaving a 33% holding in
Two Boroughs Radio in Burnley, which we
expect to dispose of in due course.
Immediately following the acquisition and
in order to facilitate rapid integration, we
made a number of organisational changes.
Two enlarged publishing divisions were
formed, one based in Leeds creating an
expanded North division and the other in
Sheffield to bring together the South
Yorkshire and North Midlands-based
companies. In addition, we established a
new division based in Preston covering the
Lancashire operations of RIM. In each
case, appointments were made such that
one or other of the Managing Director or
Finance Director was an existing Johnston
Press employee. These organisational
changes have facilitated the achievement
of operational savings through
rationalisation of backroom activities at the
regional level. A good example of this has
been the closure of printing and pre-press
activities in Harrogate with the reallocation
of work primarily to Leeds but with some
printing also transferring to other Group
presses. We have also incorporated
Letterbox Direct, RIM’s leaflet sales and
distribution management company, into
the Group’s structure and we will use this
to drive revenue, particularly from national
clients and to regionalise related
administration. 
The excellent progress which has been
made with the integration of RIM could not
have been achieved without the
cooperation and support of our new 18 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Johnston Press  Annual Report & Accounts 2002
colleagues and their willingness to
embrace the changes which a new
ownership inevitably brings. In overall
terms, we are totally confident of delivering
the £9 million annual savings in 2003
which were envisaged at the time of the
acquisition.
TRADING REVIEW – EXISTING BUSINESSES
Advertising revenue growth on a like-for-
like basis was 2.1%, comprising 1.2% in
the first half and increasing to 3.0% in the
second. Growth was achieved in every
advertising category in the second half
and over the year as a whole, an
improvement on the first six months
when there were modest declines in both
motors and recruitment advertising. 
The performance of recruitment
advertising with growth of 0.3%,
surpassed our expectations, which were
influenced by challenging comparatives in
2001, especially in the early months, and
caution over general market conditions.
This encouraging outcome reflects the
fact that unemployment remains low in
many of our marketplaces and provides
evidence that business and consumer
confidence at the local level held up
better than anticipated. There was a
disparity in performance between the
north and south of the country with
revenue declining slightly in the south
where the impact of the economic
slowdown was most marked.
Property advertising also experienced
geographic disparity but with
performance in the south, buoyed by
stronger new homes building
programmes, faring better than further
north. Overall, growth of 3.7% was
achieved despite property prices and
sales being so buoyant that in many
markets the necessity for advertising,
certainly on a repeat basis, was
somewhat diminished.
After a marginal decline in the first half,
motors advertising returned to growth in
the second six months, ending the year
2.3% ahead. Performance across the
country was patchy with no discernable
trends. The major influence has
continued to be the process of
consolidation amongst motor
dealerships.
The performance of other classified
advertising was particularly encouraging
with strong growth recorded in each half
resulting in a full year increase of 4.5%.
Whilst there were variations in
performance around the Group, good
growth was achieved in the majority of
markets, in part reflecting a recovery
from the foot and mouth affected
outcome in 2001.
Display advertising was stronger in the
first half with growth of 2.9% against
0.5% in the second half, resulting in a
year-on-year increase of 1.7%. Again,
most markets experienced growth
although there was a marginal decline in
the south, reflecting more difficult local
conditions compared with the previous
year.
Operating margins for the Group were
once again ahead of the previous year,
with a like-for-like increase of 1.5% to
31.7%. On a comparable basis and with
the sole exception of our South division,
every one of our publishing divisions
matched or exceeded the prior year’s
operating margins, a reflection of
excellent control over costs in a more
challenging market than for some time.
Market conditions were more difficult in
the south of the country than elsewhere
and our South division did well to come
very close to matching the prior year’s
performance.
Despite the more difficult trading
environment, the Scottish businesses
again performed well producing a further
improvement in profitability. The
Tweeddale Press in the Scottish borders
was strengthened by the successful
integration of the south of Edinburgh-
based Bonnyrigg operation acquired with
RIM and this will bring further benefits in
2003. In a market which produced no
ADVERTISING REVENUE GROWTH ON A LIKE-
FOR-LIKE BASIS WAS 2.1%, COMPRISING
1.2% IN THE FIRST HALF AND INCREASING TO
3.0% IN THE SECOND.  19 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Johnston Press  Annual Report & Accounts 2002
overall advertising revenue growth, Isle of
Man Newspapers also performed well to
increase profit.
Excellent progress was again made by
Northeast Press which benefited from a
healthy increase in recruitment advertising
and further improvements in operating
efficiency. The four companies comprising
the North division were also assisted by
good growth in recruitment advertising
and the continued progress of the
Doncaster and Scarborough-based
businesses was particularly noteworthy.
The Dewsbury operation acquired with
RIM has been merged with Wakefield-
based Yorkshire Weekly Newspaper Group
and this will bring benefits in 2003.
Doncaster-based South Yorkshire
Newspapers has been transferred into the
enlarged North Midlands and South
Yorkshire division which will also create
operational efficiencies. The Chesterfield
and Mansfield-based businesses, which
comprised the North Midlands division,
had another excellent year, building on the
good progress already made in 2001. In a
trading environment which improved after
Counties Newspapers into two separate
businesses, based in Aylesbury and
Banbury respectively, also helped to
improve market focus. The challenging
market conditions which prevailed on the
south coast led to a modest reduction in
both recruitment and local display
revenues. This was substantially mitigated
as the reorganisation of the South Division
implemented in 2001 helped to maximise
revenues and contain cost levels.
TRADING REVIEW – NEWLY ACQUIRED BUSINESSES
To enable meaningful comparison, the
figures quoted below reflect full year
growth rates despite the fact that RIM was
only part of Johnston Press for 37 weeks.
Over the full year, advertising revenue
growth on a like-for-like basis was 1.4%,
comprising 1.1% in the first half and 1.8%
in the second. Apart from a marginal
decline in motors advertising, growth was
achieved in every category.
With its northerly focus, RIM fared better
than the overall existing business for
recruitment advertising with growth of
2.3%. This was despite a marginal decline
at Yorkshire Post Newspapers due to its
greater dependence on more senior job
advertisements where the effect of the
downturn has been most marked.
Property and other classified advertising saw
very similar performances to the existing
businesses with growth rates of 1.3% and
3.0% respectively. A marginal decline of
2.1% in motors advertising reflected a
difficult marketplace in Leeds where dealer
consolidation and related advertising
retrenchment held back performance.
Display advertising grew by 1.0%.
Following the acquisition, we closed the
RIM national sales operation and
transferred the business to Mediaforce Ltd
which represents all Johnston Press titles.
The transfer was achieved without
disruption to the business. 
Against an operating margin before
exceptional items of 23% in 2001, the
newly acquired business is already
performing strongly under Johnston Press
ownership, reflecting the substantial
savings which have been achieved since
THE LAUNCH OF THE LINCOLNSHIRE CITIZEN,
A NEW FREE NEWSPAPER, AND THE MERGING
OF SEVERAL SMALL WEEKLY PAID-FOR
TITLES IN THE REGION, ARE BEGINNING TO
PAY DIVIDENDS. 
a slow start to the year, the three
companies comprising the East Midlands
division all made good progress. The
launch of the Lincolnshire Citizen, a new
free newspaper, and the merging of
several small weekly paid-for titles in the
region, are beginning to pay dividends. We
have announced plans to split Welland
Valley Newspapers into two separate
businesses and we expect the resulting
improved market focus to bring about a
further improvement in performance.
In the more difficult market conditions
which prevailed in the South Midlands
area, the four companies which make up
that division did well to improve
profitability. The reorganisation of Central
AWARD WINNING TITLES 20 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Johnston Press  Annual Report & Accounts 2002
acquisition. This has resulted in a pre-
exceptional operating margin of 28%
although, as this only relates to a 37-week
period, an accurate year-on-year
comparison is impossible. Every RIM
business has achieved an improvement in
both operating margin and absolute
operating profit.
For the reasons outlined above, the Leeds
marketplace proved challenging with
advertising revenues remaining flat. A
significant improvement in profitability was
driven by cost savings following acquisition.
The Dewsbury market was also difficult,
although in Harrogate more buoyant
conditions helped that company to a good
profit increase. The improved performance
in Sheffield was assisted by modest growth
in recruitment advertising. The companies
comprising the Northwest division did
particularly well with every company making
good progress and achieving strong
revenue growth in almost every category.
CIRCULATIONS
A 1.3% increase in the circulation of our
existing weekly paid-for titles for the six
months to 31 December 2002 means that
we have now experienced six years of
unbroken growth in our average weekly
sale. Circulations of the acquired weekly
titles also increased, by 2.9% in the second
six months following growth of 1.8% in the
first half. This positive performance
demonstrates the underlying strength of
local weekly newspapers and reflects our
continued investment in content and colour
in order to increase reader appeal and to
meet advertisers’ needs. We now publish
119 weekly paid-for newspapers
representing half of the Group’s total
portfolio and circulating more than 1.5
million copies per week. We also have 109
free weekly newspapers which distribute
almost 4.2 million copies each week. 
Considerable focus continues to be placed
on the sale of our daily newspaper titles of
which we now sell approaching 600,000
copies six days per week. In overall terms,
their contribution to like-for-like newspaper
sales revenues rose by 3.6%, despite the
underlying trend of modest circulation
decline. During the six months to 31
December 2002, average circulations of
our nine existing evening titles fell by 2.5%
although the underlying trade sale
performed better with a reduction of 1.8%
after stripping out a further reduction in
bulk sales which now account for only 2%
of the total sale. The acquired titles
including the Yorkshire Post and five
evening paid-for newspapers also
experienced a decline with circulations
falling by 3.3% after adjusting for a
significant reduction in bulk sales which
still account for 5.4% of the total.
Group policy is to pursue a programme of
gradual reduction in the inclusion of bulk
sales in the circulation figures, despite this
having a detrimental effect on the reported
headline ABC performance whilst that
takes place. Although the use of
promotional copies continues where
appropriate, the Johnston Press policy
encourages newspaper sales departments
to concentrate on their primary task of
building the single copy sale.
During the period, a considerable amount
of work has been done to seek ways of
improving the circulation performance of
our daily titles. This will be assisted by the
completion of the press development
projects at Northampton, Peterborough
and Portsmouth and the improved
reliability which is now being achieved. The
year has seen improved circulation
performances in a number of cases, most
notably the growth achieved in Blackpool
where the sale of the Gazette increased by
1.4% and 0.7% in the first and second
halves respectively. We remain confident
that real improvements in the daily sale
can be achieved and this remains a top
priority for the Group.
CONTENT
Across Johnston Press, our newspapers
have been at the forefront of a number of
important local issues and campaigns. The
Group’s editorial policy encourages editors
to reflect the concerns and aspirations of
local communities in the widest sense and
EVERY RIM BUSINESS HAS ACHIEVED AN
IMPROVEMENT IN BOTH OPERATING MARGIN
AND ABSOLUTE OPERATING PROFIT. 21 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Johnston Press  Annual Report & Accounts 2002
enshrines the right of editors to edit their
newspapers without interference from
general management whilst following the
Press Complaints Commission’s Code of
Practice. Amongst the vast range of
important issues covered by our
newspapers during the course of the year, 
it is difficult to single out a few but there
were a number which were particularly
noteworthy.
The Yorkshire Post’s long running
investigation into the so-called Donnygate
scandal culminated in March 2002 with
the conviction of two senior Doncaster
councillors, a property developer and two
others for corruption, bringing to 30 the
total number found guilty. The murder of
have-a-go hero, Kevin Jackson, by car
thieves in Halifax became a national story
but it was the Evening Courier, aided by
excellent contacts with local police, which
played an important part in the eventual
arrest and conviction of the killers,
providing the paper with a series of
dramatic front pages. Relations between
the regional press and the police have not
all been as good, with a number of police
forces actively obstructing legitimate
requests for information. These problems
were highlighted by editors at the annual
Johnston Press editorial conference and
since they have raised their concerns with
the Home Secretary.
During the year, our newspapers had to
deal with a number of high profile and
often sensitive issues. The Luton Herald &
Post was the first to report the case of
Diane Pretty and, after her death, ran a
well supported campaign for legislation to
permit the right to choose to die. In a
number of our areas, there are genuine
concerns about increasing numbers of
asylum seekers, not least in Wigan where
our newspapers have endeavoured to
present a balanced analysis of the issues
and have published numerous readers’
letters representing a range of views. The
Evening Telegraph in Peterborough played
a key role in helping to secure additional
Government funding for Cambridgeshire
police following the huge cost burden of
the Soham murder investigation and
increased animal rights activity at
Huntingdon Life Sciences. Our
newspapers have also played an
important part in the exposure of child
abuse with the Halifax Evening Courier
again being praised for its role in the
investigation, arrest and subsequent jailing
of Glyn Kenyon, who is regarded by some
as one of the country’s worst child sex
offenders.
On a positive note, our newspapers
played an important role in the events
surrounding the Golden Jubilee. Apart
from providing a vital catalyst for
celebrations in many communities over
the special holiday weekend in June, we
also gave extensive coverage to the
Queen and Prince Philip’s visits around
the country. From the Golden Jubilee
Community Volunteer Awards launched by
the Harrogate Advertiser Series to The
Falkirk Herald’s coverage of the Royal
Opening of the remarkable Falkirk Wheel,
the world’s first rotating boatlift, our titles
provided extensive coverage of the
celebrations. 
During the course of the year, a number of
our newspapers have received awards for
their excellence. Amongst the many
successes, the most noteworthy was
undoubtedly The Yorkshire Post which
won a number of prestigious awards,
including Regional Newspaper of the Year.
We expect our newspapers to play an
active part in the affairs of their
communities, campaigning vigorously on
matters of local importance. Local
newspapers also have a vital role in
bringing people together and building
community links. A review of our extensive
community involvement is included in the
Corporate Social Responsibility Statement
on pages 38 and 39.
ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING 
Following the acquisition of RIM, we now
have over 140 websites which together
cover almost every local marketplace in
which we publish. Further launches are
OUR NEWSPAPERS PLAYED AN IMPORTANT
ROLE IN THE EVENTS SURROUNDING THE
GOLDEN JUBILEE. 
CIRCULATION MAP
JOHNSTON PRESS
REGIONAL INDEPENDENT MEDIA
BOTH 22 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Johnston Press  Annual Report & Accounts 2002
shareholder with all websites now
powered by Johnston Press’ own on-line
classified capability. The Group’s enlarged
electronic publishing activities are
expected to make a contribution to profit
in 2003.
PRINTING
2002 was a further year of transition for
the printing division with completion of
the major press development programme
and the closure of the Burgess Hill
pressroom. The integration of the major
RIM printing plants in Leeds and Sheffield
and the closure of the Harrogate press
also took place during the year.
Profitability of the division fell slightly,
primarily as a result of a significant
change in the mix of throughput with an
increase in internal work offsetting a
reduction of external contract printing, a
change which is beneficial for the Group
as a whole.
The major press development programme,
which has cost approximately £40 million
over three years, gives us a substantial
increase in colour capacity and press
capability at the three major pressrooms 
in Northampton, Peterborough and
Portsmouth. In addition to major
enhancements to the existing double 
width presses at Northampton and
Peterborough, an old press at
Peterborough has been replaced and 
a new press has also been installed at
Portsmouth. Additional costs were incurred
during the commissioning process
including significantly increased overtime
but we are now experiencing much greater
reliability. During the year, we also
introduced computer-to-plate technology
into the same three pressrooms and, after
a period of commissioning, this is now
giving greatly increased efficiency and
improved print quality.
During the year, we had the advantage of
a significant reduction in newsprint
prices, effectively reversing the increases
experienced in 2001. Prices for 2003
have seen a further modest reduction. In
part, this reflects our increased
purchasing power as a result of the RIM
acquisition, accompanied by a reduction
in the number of suppliers to the
enlarged Group.
planned in 2003 to cover the few
remaining gaps. All websites are an
integral part of the local publishing mix and
come under the commercial and editorial
control of the respective local newspaper
management. News content is generally
updated at least daily by newsroom staff
with advertisers being encouraged to
place advertisements on-line as well as in
our local newspapers.
Revenue growth of 14% has been
achieved on a like-for-like basis and, as in
2001, our existing on-line activities have
made a positive contribution to profit.
Considerable progress has been made in
the design and functionality of our sites
with improved use of database technology.
Electronic publishing is a key part of our
portfolio with organisational focus and
resourcing set accordingly. Total page
impressions are now running at around 10
million per month.
During the year, we made considerable
improvements to our property portal
which is now searchable by both location
or choice of school. At any one time, we
now carry over 40,000 properties, 60,000
cars and more than 12,000 jobs, all of
which are updated weekly. The ability of
each publishing centre to upload jobs
individually has contributed to a 20%
growth in our new media recruitment
revenues.
A major task during the year was the
integration of the RIM electronic
publishing activities which, unlike those of
Johnston Press, were organised centrally
and had yet to make a positive financial
contribution. The successful transition
has resulted in the closure of Regional
Interactive Media, the RIM central
operation, and the launching of new
websites under local management control
using the Johnston Press template. We
have also withdrawn from Fish4, the
regional press-owned on-line classified
advertising venture in which RIM was a
ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING IS A KEY PART OF
OUR PORTFOLIO WITH ORGANISATIONAL
FOCUS AND RESOURCING SET ACCORDINGLY. 23 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Johnston Press  Annual Report & Accounts 2002
2003 will be a year of consolidation for the
major pressrooms in Northampton,
Peterborough and Portsmouth. However,
we have plans to introduce additional
colour capacity at Leeds and Sunderland
and have also placed orders for a full
conversion to computer-to-plate
technology at Leeds. These projects,
coupled with others around the Group, will
result in total capital expenditure
exceeding depreciation in 2003. We have
also initiated a feasibility study into the
development of the Sheffield-based
printing facilities which could well result in
a major greenfield investment in 2004/5.
Given our increased dependence on fewer,
larger pressrooms, we have taken steps to
strengthen our management capabilities
with four new senior management
appointments in early 2003.
ORGANISATION AND PEOPLE
Our senior management team has
remained unchanged throughout 2002
with the exception of the addition of a
Group Business Development Manager,
Henry Faure Walker, who joined us in
March. It is that team which has carried
the primary responsibility for the
integration of RIM and the excellent
progress we have made is greatly to their
credit. Following the acquisition, we also
strengthened our Group management
structure with the appointment of Graham
Gould as Group Head of IT. Graham has
been with the Group for some years and
was previously Managing Director, North of
England division, based in Halifax.
The acquisition of RIM has strengthened
the pool of talent available to the Group to
meet both our current and future needs.
Indeed, we have been impressed with the
general calibre and commitment of all the
staff within the newly acquired business. A
number of senior appointments have been
made since the acquisition and many of
these have been filled by former RIM staff. 
Continued improvements have been made
to the scope and delivery of in-house
training programmes of both skill-based
and management development courses.
Our training programmes are highly
regarded and where appropriate are
supplemented by external resources,
particularly for the training of journalists
where we use a number of accredited
courses including one at Darlington
College of Technology which has been
designed specifically for Johnston Press.
Improvements have also been made to
our induction courses for new employees,
part of our successful efforts to reduce
levels of staff turnover.
We remain acutely aware that our staff are
our most critical and valuable resource.
We acknowledge their considerable
contribution to the success of the Group.
TIM BOWDLER 
Chief Executive
19 March 2003
