 06 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Johnston Press  Annual Report & Accounts 2002
For most media companies the past two
years have been very difficult – particularly
for those dependent on selling display
advertising. For many, this has resulted in
reduced profits and a declining share
price. I am pleased to report that Johnston
Press was an exception in both respects
and notably we were one of the best
performing European media shares in
2002. But we are not remotely
complacent, recognising that each week
brings new challenges as well as
opportunities. We benefit from having a
robust advertising business but, to sustain
this, we must remain focused on serving
our customers well.
The theme of this report, as it was last
year, is “life is local”. It is our guiding
principle. Our investment in people,
equipment, technology and acquisitions is
aimed at enhancing our service to local
communities and, in particular, to our
principal customers – our readers and our
advertisers.
It is the policy of your Board to be
editorially neutral and community biased.
We recognise that our daily, weekly and
less frequent publications with their
associated special supplements and web
sites will only thrive if they make a strong
connection with the communities they
serve. This is why we place such store by
editorial independence and a single-
mindedly local approach.
Britain is very well served by national
media. Our role is to understand and meet
the needs of people in the areas where
they live, work and play. For most of us,
what happens in our immediate local
environment is of far more importance
than more remote events. It is in the local
community that we spend most of our
time and in which we have our greatest
interests. Most of us eat out, seek
entertainment, go shopping, buy cars,
look for a job and move house close to
our homes. We have continued to do this
even in recent economically uncertain
times which is why our advertising
revenues have remained resilient.
Following our successful acquisition of
RIM, we now publish and distribute more
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Johnston Press has enjoyed a very satisfactory year with cash
generation, profits and turnover all at record levels. We have seen
the early benefits of the acquisition of Regional Independent Media
Holdings Limited (RIM), and all of our businesses have done well on a
like-for-like basis. The growth we have achieved is a function of steady
trading and well-controlled costs. This reflects a single-minded focus
on the provision of information and entertainment to local communities
and to meeting the needs of local advertisers. This approach underpins
all of our strategic and tactical decisions. 
than 480 million newspapers each year
and have an average weekly readership of
11.8 million. Our web sites receive more
than 100 million page impressions
annually. We reach deeply into numerous
local communities around the country.
RESULTS
In 2002, we achieved turnover of 
£428 million up 43%, profit before tax of
£93 million up 35% and free cash flows of
£86 million up 127%, all against 2001. The
consolidation of RIM from 12 April 2002
contributed to this growth but it is
especially pleasing to report operating
profit margins of 30% for the enlarged
Group, with good growth from both the
existing and acquired activities. Free cash
flow in the business is excellent with a
conversion of 66% from operating profit
compared to 42% last year. Headline
earnings per share were 26.75p, up 13%
on 2001 when adjusted for the Rights Issue
associated with the acquisition of RIM.
The circulations of our paid-for weekly
newspapers have been strong, growing by
1.5%. Our daily titles, in line with industry 07 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Johnston Press  Annual Report & Accounts 2002
will facilitate further consolidation in the
regional press. We have no doubt that the
process will continue regardless.
BOARD
We have noted the proposals of 
Derek Higgs on the role of non-executive
directors. Various concerns on the
practical implications of these have been
expressed, many of which we share. 
We place great store by good governance.
We have benefited from informal feedback
from shareholders, both large and small,
on governance and I welcome any
comments, particularly if people have any
concerns.
Sir Harry Roche plans to step down from
the Board at the AGM in 2004, which
coincides with his 70th birthday. Harry has
been a director since 1993 and Deputy
Chairman since 1996. Throughout that time
he has brought a wealth of newspaper
industry knowledge and business expertise.
I wish him well in what will be a very active
retirement. Peter Cawdron will replace
Harry as Senior Independent Director next
year. We have appointed external
consultants to seek Harry’s replacement. 
Your Board consists of six non-executive
and two executive directors. Freddy
Johnston and his brother Harry, both non-
executives, are not regarded as
independent as they represent a substantial
shareholding in the Company and due to
their length of service on the Board.
However, I am sure it will not be surprising
to learn that they very definitely have
shareholders’ interests at heart and are
passionate about the Group’s success.
I would like to congratulate Tim Bowdler,
our Chief Executive, on his appointment in
July 2002 as President of the Newspaper
Society, a position which he will hold until
the middle of this year. It has enabled him
to play a leading role in matters of concern
and interest to the industry as a whole.
PROSPECTS
We have made a satisfactory start to 2003,
achieving further modest revenue growth,
despite advertising markets remaining
subdued. The price of newsprint, our
largest purchase item, has reduced and
trends, have shown circulation declines
but newspaper sales revenues and
advertising sales have continued to grow
as the communications value of our
publications remains great. 
DIVIDEND
Your Board propose a final dividend of
3.6p per share making a total of 5.4p per
share compared to 4.9p last year, an
increase of 18% when allowing for the
discount element of the Rights Issue.
Dividend cover is 4.5 times.
STRATEGY
We believe that industry consolidation and
the emergence of a small number of large,
well-resourced publishers has resulted in
better local newspapers than would have
been the case from a fragmented and
undercapitalised industry. Local focus
comes through the efforts of editors and
managers not as an accident of ownership. 
We continue to seek opportunities to
expand our business and we remain
hopeful that the Government’s stated
objective to lighten the burden of regulation
costs in the business remain well controlled.
During the year we will also see further
benefits from the full integration of RIM.
The outlook is clouded by events overseas
and their potential impact on the UK
economy, including business and consumer
confidence. Whilst it is impossible to predict
the economic consequences with certainty,
we remain confident that Johnston Press is
in good shape to respond to whatever
challenges the future may bring.
ROGER PARRY 
Chairman
19 March 2003 08 LOCALLY FOCUSED
Johnston Press  Annual Report & Accounts 2002
