 Johnston Press  Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Part of Life
04
The success of Johnston Press is
built upon an unwavering commitment
to serve local communities by the
provision of news, information and
entertainment. Through our
publications and websites, we aim to
provide compelling content to every
section of the community: be they
young or old, at home or at work and
whatever their range of interests. We
aim to be the premium provider of
print and on-line information in all of
our chosen local markets. 
Investment in 2003 has gone into
enhancing our presses, systems,
processes and publishing portfolio.
This has been achieved by providing
more colour printing, by using new
technology to speed up the process
by which our publications get to our
readers, and by improving the
functionality and content of our
websites. We have been rewarded by
an increase in the circulation of our
core weekly titles of 1.3%, which is
the seventh consecutive year we have
seen circulations rise and by a very
substantial increase in website use.
In addition, we have seen further
growth in spending by our advertising
customers in our main classified
advertising categories, both in print
and on-line. 
Chairman’s
By Roger Parry 
Chairman
2003 was another superb year for the Group. Cash generation, revenue and profit 
have all risen to record levels. Assisted by an excellent first full-year contribution 
from Regional Independent Media Holdings Ltd (RIM), as a result of its highly
successful integration into the Group, headline earnings per share rose strongly by
21%. The focus of the management team has been on strengthening our existing
operations by improving services to readers and advertisers as well as capturing 
cost savings. It has been a year of real progress. 
STATEMENT  Johnston Press  Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Part of Life
06
Results
In 2003, we achieved a turnover of
£492 million, up 15%, profit before
tax of £128 million, up 38%, and free
cash flow of £95 million, up 10%.
Headline earnings per share rose
from 26.75p to 32.36p. 
Dividend
The Board proposes a final dividend
of 4p per share, making a total of 6p
per share compared to 5.4p per
share last year. This is an increase 
of 11%.
In the 2003 calendar year, the Group’s
share price rose by 26%. Whilst this
is very pleasing to all of us as
shareholders, your Board recognises
that this is no more than an expression
of market opinion and that we must
continue to focus on the real
fundamentals of satisfying the needs
of our readers and advertisers.
Strategy
As we do every year, the Board has
conducted a thorough strategic
review of our existing business and
explored all the various opportunities
open to us for future investment.
Recognising the considerable
success of our strategy to date, 
we re-affirmed that we are best
positioned to achieve growth from
continuing to serve selected local
communities with their diverse
information needs. 
We continue to very actively seek
acquisition opportunities that would
mesh with our existing portfolio of
businesses and to pursue organic
growth through a range of new in-
print and on-line initiatives.
Media Ownership
All the evidence suggests that the
consolidation of ownership in the 
regional press in the UK has
produced substantial benefits for
both readers and advertisers. It is
important, therefore, that the 
Government and competition
authorities do not stand in the way of
future consolidation where there are
demonstrable benefits.
Plurality of editorial voice does not
automatically flow from plurality of
ownership. There are many examples
where a strong and well resourced 
local newspaper company provides
excellent and varied editorial
products and there is no evidence to
suggest that the quality of local news
and information is diminished in
markets where there is only one
publisher of local newspapers. It is
certainly our policy to encourage
wide editorial diversity. 
Board
During the past year we have been
delighted to welcome two new Non-
Executive Directors to the Johnston
Press Board.
Simon Waugh is the Group Marketing
Director of Centrica and Martina King
is the Managing Director of Yahoo
Europe. Both bring considerable
experience of consumer marketing.
As I reported to shareholders last year,
Sir Harry Roche will be stepping down
at the AGM in April 2004 on the
event of his seventieth birthday and I
would like to record the thanks of the
Board for his invaluable contribution
as a director of Johnston Press.
Chairman’s
STATEMENT
Recognising the considerable success of our
strategy to date, we re-affirmed that we are
best positioned to achieve growth from
continuing to serve selected local communities
with their diverse information needs. Johnston Press  Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Part of Life
07
We see continued growth in free cash flow
and earnings per share coming from further
increases in circulation and advertising
revenues coupled with continuing tight
control of costs. The Board is optimistic that
we will be able to achieve this growth in 2004
and beyond. 
After Sir Harry’s retirement, the
Board will consist of nine directors.
Of these, four are regarded as
independent non-executives. Freddy
and Harry Johnston are not seen as
independent, as a result of their
length of service on the Board and
significant shareholdings, although
the other directors are unanimous in
believing that they always act in the
interests of all shareholders. The rest
of the Board is made up of myself,
the Chief Executive and the Finance
Director. This Board composition and
that of the Board committees mean
that we are in full compliance with
best practice in corporate
governance. 
Prospects
The achievement of continuing
organic revenue growth remains
central to the Group’s objectives. 
Of the many financial and
commercial measures of a company,
we regard the most important as
being free cash flow and earnings
per share. We see continued growth
in these coming from further
increases in circulation and
advertising revenues coupled with
continuing tight control of costs. The
Board is optimistic that we will be
able to achieve this growth in 2004
and beyond.
ROGER PARRY
Chairman
17 March 2004
