 Strategy
Going forward, our strategy is to build on our strengths as 
a local publisher. Whilst we recognise that there are significant
technology changes going on, particularly in the online area,
we remain convinced that fundamental human behaviour and
human needs are not going to change. As I have said in a
number of previous annual reports, “life is local” and it is this
reality that drives our strategic approach, both online and 
in print. 
We believe it will be possible for us to participate in the
anticipated further consolidation of the local publishing 
industry. Economists and competition experts are increasingly
recognising that, in terms of advertising revenues,
newspapers compete with a variety of media and that, so 
far as plurality of editorial voice is concerned, this can be
achieved just as well, indeed, sometimes far better, under 
a small number of owners than it can under diverse,
fragmented and under-resourced ownership conditions.
Progress
Johnston Press has been serving local communities for
more than 150 years and for most of that time our medium
has been printed paper. In the Group’s early years this was
simple text; later it was enhanced by black and white
photography and, in recent years, by full colour presentations
of text, photography and graphics. Increasingly, websites and
mobile services are becoming an important part of our
offering, both to advertisers and to readers.
Initially we took a very cautious approach to the internet
boom, waiting to see exactly how the technology and human
behaviour would develop. We now have a clear picture of
what we believe is the right way forward for a Group which
serves local communities. 
We are developing a family of websites which have common
technology and functionality but each of which is focused on
the needs of its own local community. These websites enable
us to provide a service of news, information and entertainment,
which supplements our daily and weekly printed publications.
In addition, we have invested significantly in the technology to
offer targeted and effective classified advertising on the web. 
We see web-based classified advertising as both a
complement to, and an enhancement of, traditional print
advertising. Your Board believes that our development of two
mutually supporting media will form a sustainable and robust
business model for the future. 
Johnston Press plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 12
Chairman’s Statement
continued
As I have said in a number 
of previous annual reports,
“life is local” and it is this 
reality that drives our strategic
approach, both online and 
in print Johnston Press plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 200413
Accordingly, we are confident that we have significant
sources of future growth, both through organic development
of our existing franchises and the acquisition of new ones.
Board
I am delighted to be able to announce the appointment of
Les Hinton as an independent non-executive Director. He has
been in the newspaper industry for more than 40 years and,
as Executive Chairman of News International, brings an
extraordinary wealth of publishing experience to Johnston
Press. It is also a great pleasure to announce the appointment
of Danny Cammiade as an executive Director in the role of
Chief Operating Officer. He has made a major contribution 
to the success of Johnston Press and plays a central role in
continuing to drive the business forward.
Your Board consists of five independent non-executives,
two non-executives representing the Johnston family interest,
three executives and myself. Lord Gordon, one of our
independent non-executive directors, will have completed 
9 years’ service at this year’s AGM, but the Board remains
entirely satisfied that he is independent. Johnston Press
remains fully compliant with all aspects of the Combined
Code.
Prospects
Despite the strength of trading in 2004 making for tough
comparisons, looking forward your Board expects to see
another year of growth in advertising and other revenue
streams. We will also continue to invest heavily in editorial
resources, printing, distribution and online technology. These
factors, coupled with the tight management of costs, further
efficiency gains and actions to offset the increase in newsprint
prices, should lead to another year of satisfactory progress
for the Group in 2005. 
Roger PARRY
Chairman
16 March 2005 Johnston Press plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 14 Johnston Press plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 200415
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Another record set
of results in 2004
Johnston Press produced another record set of
results in 2004, benefiting from our extensive portfolio
of well recognised market leading brands across
numerous local communities around the UK. The year
has witnessed a growing focus throughout the Group 
on the achievement of stronger organic revenue growth
coupled with continuing improvements in business
efficiency through ongoing investments in IT systems.
The results for the year ended 31 December 2004
demonstrate the effectiveness of a strategy which
remains closely focused on our core business of local
community publishing in the UK.
Strategic Overview
The concept of “Life is Local” continues to provide the
underlying strategic logic for Johnston Press. Extensive
research commissioned by the Newspaper Society, the
industry’s trade association, consistently illustrates the
intensely local focus of people’s lives covering a wide spectrum
of activities including work, shopping, leisure and socialising.
Our operations are closely shaped to reflect this important
tendency, serving numerous local communities across the
UK with a variety of print and online publications. In turn,
our business substantially reflects the performance of a myriad
of distinct and separate local economies. The resultant
underpinning drivers which power our activities are consumer
confidence, the property market and employment levels.
With the ongoing satisfactory performance of the UK
economy as a whole, these factors continue to provide 
a solid foundation for our business.
Tim Bowdler
Chief Executive Officer Johnston Press plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 16
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
continued
This has resulted in a high performing core business which
is well placed to achieve further growth. It also provides 
an excellent platform from which to launch new initiatives
whether these are in the form of new print publications,
websites or related local ventures. An important such initiative
at the end of 2004 has been the establishment of a new
publishing division, known as JP Ventures, bringing together
various non-local newspaper businesses including Outbound
Publishing (emigration newspapers and overseas property
magazines), Off Road Publications (Dirt Bike Rider and Trials
& Motorcross News), Letterbox Direct (door-to-door leaflet
delivery), and Days Out UK (leisure guide). It is anticipated
that the resulting heightened focus on these businesses will
drive further opportunities for growth. Already in late 2004, 
we completed the acquisition of Offer Pack, a small business
which specialises in the design and door-to-door distribution
of packaged special offer coupons to promote local retailers
and services.
During the year, we have also launched a large number 
of new publications in pursuit of a strategy which is aimed
at layering our local markets with a range of newspapers,
specialist print publications and local websites. This strategy
will ensure that we are in a position to offer advertisers an
increasing variety of channels to promote their goods and
services to local communities, improving targeting and
maximising market penetration. Noteworthy during 2004
has been the launch of more than 20 lifestyle and specialist
publications, the introduction of six regional editions of Jobs
Today, a new weekly recruitment title branded to mirror our
online jobs site and a similar initiative for regional property
advertising.
The industry structure has remained substantially unchanged
during the past 12 months, with the four largest publishers
accounting for approximately 73% of total copies distributed
or sold. Johnston Press remains fourth largest with about
15% market share. There has been relatively little corporate
activity and few ownership changes, with Johnston Press
making no newspaper acquisitions during the year. However,
this should not be taken to suggest that continued industry
consolidation is unlikely. We firmly believe that there will be
more ownership changes in the future and that further
industry consolidation will be permitted by the regulators,
although the timing of such changes cannot be predicted. 
The disposal of our 33% holding in Two Boroughs Radio
in Burnley was completed during the year. Underlining our
focused approach, this disposal completes our withdrawal
from all the local radio activities which were acquired with
Regional Independent Media Holdings Limited (RIM) in 2002.
The improved use of IT will continue to play a vital part in
the ongoing enhancement of operating performance and
we have invested heavily in IT systems and related hardware,
in order to drive business efficiency and improve customer
service. Hand-in-hand with these IT investments has been
the continued development of our printing capability,
especially with regard to the installation of additional
revenue-earning colour capacity. Whilst our focus remains
on the provision of appropriate print capacity for our own
needs, we have entered into long-term 15-year contracts 
to print News International (NI) titles at our new Sheffield
facility and, conditional upon planning consent, at
Portsmouth. The opportunity to secure such valuable
contracts will benefit the Group financially and in terms 
of enhanced press capability.
The broad geographic spread of our local publishing
activities, together with the sound structure of the Group
which has been developed over many years by a combination
of steady organic improvement and judicious acquisitive
expansion, provide the Group with an excellent foundation
from which to achieve continued growth.
Trading Performance
2004 was a 53-week financial year for Johnston Press and,
in order to enable meaningful comparisons, the figures
quoted in this section are on a like-for-like 52-week basis,
as explained in the Financial Review.
Advertising revenue growth in 2004 was stronger than
expected, ending the year 5.5% ahead, comprising 6.0%
growth in the first half and 5.0% in the second. The
performance in the latter part of the year was particularly
pleasing as the corresponding period’s comparatives were
During the year, we have also
launched a large number of 
new publications in pursuit of 
a strategy which is aimed at
layering our local markets significantly stronger than earlier in the year. The outcome
reflects the benefits of our broad spread of market leading
publications across a widely dispersed geographic base.
With the sole exception of motors’ advertising, the
second half followed the pattern of the first in which every
advertising category grew. This was achieved entirely as 
a result of volume growth, with yields remaining static,
despite the benefit of additional premium-priced colour
advertising and normal rate-card increases. This outcome
reflects the launch of additional lower yielding recruitment
and property publications using repurposed advertising
content, together with the robust growth of property
advertising, the lowest yielding category.
The rate of recruitment advertising growth was strong
throughout, though lower in the second half at 6.6%
compared with 13.3% in the first. This reflects the more
challenging second half comparatives, but demonstrates 
a very satisfying underlying performance. In very broad
terms, growth was stronger in the north of the country 
than in the south, although there were several exceptions 
to the general pattern.
Property advertising had another excellent year with first
and second half growth rates of 4.7% and 15.2% respectively.
The acceleration witnessed in the second half reflects the
need for vendors to work harder in a slowing market place
which also encouraged the house-builders to increase their
advertising exposure. Growth was lower in the South and
South Midlands regions than elsewhere.
After marginal growth of 0.4% in the first half, motors’
advertising declined in the second by 3.0%. This remains
our toughest market sector, adversely affected by continuing
dealer consolidation and a number of initiatives are being
pursued to improve performance. Revenues were patchy
with no particular regional trends.
The Other Classifieds category grew well in both halves
at rates of 3.3% and 5.6% respectively. This category
comprises a variety of advertising sources, including
entertainments, family announcements, public notices 
and general classifieds. Each of these segments grew 
with entertainments and family announcements being the
strongest. There was no particular geographic pattern,
although the south coast performed best. 
Johnston Press plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 200417
JP Ventures
New Publishing division including:
Emigration newspapers and
overseas property magazines
Off road publications
Door-to-door leaflet delivery
“Days Out UK” leisure guide Johnston Press plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 18
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
continued
The rate of growth for display advertising was 2.0% in 
the second half, following an increase of 3.4% in the first. 
The second half comparatives were more difficult due to the
return of heavier supermarket advertising in the corresponding
period last year following the conclusion of the Competition
Commission inquiry into the acquisition of Safeway and a
more general improvement following a lull in activity during
the Iraqi conflict. There were no obvious regional trends.
In overall terms, total advertising revenue growth was
generally stronger in the north of the country than in the
south, with the best increases being achieved by the
Northeast and North of England (Yorkshire) divisions.
However, outside those two regions, there were no 
major variances. 
Operating margins for the Group, before operating
exceptional items, were again ahead of the previous year
with an increase from 33.1% to 34.0% and every division
increased its operating profit. This outcome again demonstrates
the ability of Johnston Press to convert modest revenue growth
into a much stronger profit performance and reflects excellent
cost control, aided by ongoing investments in IT systems,
with the additional benefit of stable newsprint prices.
Operating Review
Even greater emphasis is now being placed on the
achievement of organic revenue growth. Advertising
directors from around the Group meet regularly to review
best practice and to discuss the development of new
revenue generating ideas. This process has been reinforced
by the recent appointment of an experienced senior
executive to oversee these efforts. The Johnston Press
intranet based ADS4U system, which provides an extensive
database of advertising ideas and creative copy, is
available to all of our advertising staff and is now being
used extensively to generate additional revenues.
During the year, we have also launched an unprecedented
number of new publications. Amongst these we have
introduced 14 lifestyle publications. Being high quality
glossy colour magazines, these have enabled us to attract
advertisers who would not normally use our newspaper
titles and, in turn, this has added value to the newspapers
into which these magazines are inserted.
We have also launched a number of specialist publications
aimed at specific market segments. Examples include two
annual magazines launched in the Northwest targeted
respectively at the youth fashion market and teenagers in
New
Publications Johnston Press plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 200419
the 16-18 age bracket. Following further launches, South
Yorkshire Newspapers, based in Doncaster, now has 7 monthly
free newspapers dedicated to small communities such as
Rossington and Bawtry. This format almost literally brings
local news to the parish-pump and also provides the
smallest local advertisers with a viable platform. We are
seeking to extend this initiative elsewhere around the Group.
A new weekly free newspaper was launched in Milton
Keynes to supplement the previous twice-weekly publishing
portfolio in order to meet the demands of this rapidly
growing city. In pursuit of significant revenue growth, we
have almost trebled the pagination and distribution of our
Lincoln-based free newspaper from its previous levels.
Another important development during 2004 was 
the launch of a number of classified advertising print
publications across wider geographic regions than any 
one of our individual newspapers serve. Perhaps the most
important of these have been the six regional recruitment
titles “Jobs Today”, replicating our online jobs content and
reinforcing our web-based recruitment brand. These titles
extend the job advertisers’ reach and generate additional
cover price revenues. A similar initiative in respect of our
property advertising under the “Exclusive Homes” brand
provides a platform for higher priced properties for sale in
various of the regions in which we publish.
We are also working more closely than ever with Mediaforce,
the independent national sales house which represents all
Johnston Press titles with national and regional advertising
agencies. Mediaforce have offices in London, Birmingham,
Manchester and Edinburgh and have represented Johnston
Press for a number of years. Together with Mediaforce, we
are making more presentations to agencies and potential
new advertisers in an effort to bring new business into our
titles. Successes in 2004 included Procter & Gamble,
Nestlé and Jet 2, one of several low-cost airlines now using
the regional press. We also launched a series of focused
Group-wide advertising supplements to attract new national
business, the first of these being dedicated to Euro 2004.
Distinct from print publications, we have also achieved
strong growth from a number of related local events and
services. The delivery of leaflets door-to-door, often in
conjunction with our own free newspapers, is an important
and growing revenue source, accounting for £13.3 million 
in the year, representing a growth of 14%. In order to
capitalise better on this opportunity, we are gradually
switching the management of this activity from our local
companies to Letterbox Direct, a dedicated leaflet delivery
operation acquired as part of RIM. Revenues from local
exhibitions, including such events as job fairs, motor shows
and wedding fairs have increased by 4% and provide an
opportunity for greater growth around the Group. Reader
Holidays, which we package and promote through our
newspapers, also grew by 4% and we have created several
centres of excellence to service other companies around
the Group where this growth opportunity has not as yet been
maximised. Premium line services, primarily for dating
purposes, grew at 5% and, in response to changing patterns
of usage, we are developing an online service to complement
the current print-based offer.
Hand-in-hand with our focus on achieving greater organic
revenue growth are our efforts to maximise the considerable
opportunities which are available through investment in IT
systems and related hardware. The appointment of a Group
Head of IT, following our acquisition of RIM in 2002, has
brought much increased impetus and improved coordination
to these efforts. It has resulted in much greater standardisation
across the Group of the hardware and software we employ,
which, in turn, has brought purchasing, operational and
support benefits. Working closely with our preferred
suppliers of advertising, editorial and sales ledger systems,
we have continued a programme of replacing ageing and
disparate systems with common region-wide platforms.
During the year, this has involved new installations in the
majority of our regions. These installations have enabled 
us to consolidate a number of our backroom pre-press
production operations with consequent cost savings. 
A new newspaper sales system was installed in the South
of England division during the year and will form the basis
of an extended common system across the entire Group
which will be rolled out during the current year. To facilitate
customer service, efficiency and the transfer of advertising
Another important development
during 2004 was the launch of 
a number of classified advertising
print publications across wider
geographic regions than any one
of our individual newspapers serve Johnston Press plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 20
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
continued
content to our websites, we have introduced new software
throughout the Group to deal with property advertising. 
In an increasing number of locations, this system is now
being used by our estate agent customers to upload their
entire property database which, in turn, has resulted in
greater accuracy, later deadlines and increased online
content. During the year, we also invested in a new payroll
and HR system which will give greatly enhanced information
to assist management around the Group. Major improvements
are being made to our Group communications infrastructure,
including the introduction of voice-over IP telephony.
The Group’s approach to Health & Safety has been
overhauled and upgraded during the year with the introduction
of strengthened operating and reporting procedures. Although
already at a good standard, this has resulted in a number 
of additional measures being taken to improve further the
Group’s performance in this critically important area. There
were very few reportable accidents during the year with
none involving serious injury.
During 2004, we celebrated several important milestones,
perhaps most notably the 250th anniversary of the Yorkshire
Post. Other important celebrations included the 150th
anniversaries of the Whitby Gazette, the Morpeth Herald
and Northumberland Gazette, the Grantham Journal, the
Harborough Mail and the Derbyshire Times. The latter
involved a dinner for many customers, staff and local
personalities at Chatsworth House and we are grateful to
the Duke of Devonshire for permitting us to use this
wonderful venue. A number of our newspapers were also
recognised for their excellence, including the Southern
Reporter as “Best Paid-for Weekly Newspaper in Scotland”,
for the third successive year, and the Worksop Guardian as
“Campaigning Newspaper of the Year All weekly paid-for
newspapers”.
Electronic Publishing
Considerable progress has again been made in terms 
of the growth and development of our web-based activities.
The Group now has 182 local websites, an increase of 20
over the course of the year. Total page impressions grew 
by 34% to reach 20 million per month. Total online
revenues increased by 17% to £6.3 million.
Sheffield Press Project
10 acre site adjacent to M1
Modern high speed press
100% colour capacity
State-of-the-art equipment Printing
Further significant progress has been made by our Printing
Division in improving the quality, reliability and timeliness of
our printing operations. Almost every Johnston Press title is
now printed in-house, or at Broughton Printers as part of
our long-term agreement with the Express Newspapers
Group. With our own titles utilising a greater share of total
capacity due to increased pagination and colour growth,
third-party print revenue fell slightly when compared with
the previous year. Costs have been well controlled and
operating efficiencies further improved.
Undoubtedly, the most exciting development in 2004 
was the project to build a major new printing centre at
Dinnington on the M1, outside Sheffield. The purchase of
the site was concluded at the year-end and ground works
started at the beginning of 2005. We were particularly
pleased to announce, in October, a 15-year agreement to
print News International (NI) titles at our new facility. This
resulted in an increase to the size of the building and press
such that the total project cost will now be in excess of 
£60 million. In February of this year, we announced a similar
arrangement with NI, conditional upon receiving planning
consent, for the redevelopment of our Portsmouth facility, 
a project which is expected to cost in excess of £45 million.
The NI contracts will make a valuable contribution to overall
profitability and the resultant printing capacity will greatly
enhance the Group’s capability, bringing total colour
availability to in excess of 80% of capacity.
The projects to install additional colour towers at Leeds
and Sunderland were completed on budget and to schedule,
as was the installation of additional colour on a number of
the existing Sunderland units. The introduction of computer-
to-plate technology at the same sites was also successfully
completed with the planned operational improvements
being achieved. We continue to review our printing
capability to ensure that we are able to meet current and
anticipated customer needs.
Newsprint prices during 2004 remained unchanged from
the previous year but have increased from the beginning of
2005. Measures are already in place which will partially
mitigate the impact.
Johnston Press plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 200421
During the year, our three classified sites, Jobs Today,
Motors Today and Property Today, were relaunched after a
complete overhaul and upgrade. At any point in time, we
now typically carry 12,000 jobs, 200,000 cars and 70,000
properties for sale. The functionality and performance of
each site has been substantially improved with the aim of
achieving best-in-class status. We have also continued the
process of building local brand awareness. Of the many
enhancements made, perhaps the most noteworthy is the
launch of a CV matching service on our Jobs Today site
which is already generating additional revenue from an
expanding database of CVs. The launch of Yorkshire Jobs
Today, a regional jobs site, has also proved very successful
with site visits and revenues growing strongly.
The success of our classified websites is very dependent
upon the quality of data obtained from advertisers. In order
to improve this, we have developed and rolled out a software
interface with our front-end advertising systems, providing
our sales staff with a template which facilitates the collection
of structured data. Using this enhanced customer information,
coupled with similarly improved data about readers, we
have introduced a customer relations management (CRM)
programme across the Group, which over time will result in
better customer reception and service, match our offers
more closely to customers’ interests and create opportunities
for new revenue streams.
We plan to increase the level of investment in our
electronic publishing activities and for these to make a
growing contribution to overall Group performance. We
have expanded the specialist team based in Peterborough
who are responsible for the maintenance and development
of our sites. At local company level, we also have a number
of specialist staff to assist in the commercial development
of our sites which are very much an integral part of the
publishing portfolio of each centre.
We plan to increase the level 
of investment in our electronic
publishing activities and for these
to make a growing contribution
to overall Group performance Johnston Press plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 22
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
continued
Circulations
For the year as a whole, total circulation revenues increased
by 1.3%, comprising rises of 1.7% and 0.9% in the first
and second halves respectively. We continue to pursue a
conservative policy towards cover prices with 89 of our 119
paid-for titles being increased during 2004. Circulations of
our weekly titles remain satisfactory although, after seven
consecutive years of growth, there was a flattening of
performance. After an increase of 0.3% in the first half,
weekly circulations fell by 0.6% in the second. Our weekly
titles continue to receive investment in terms of additional
colour, pagination and improved content and design.
Approximately half of the Group’s 243 titles are paid-for
weeklies, more than are owned by any other UK regional
newspaper publisher.
As a result of a decision in the second half to remove
almost all remaining bulk sales from the reported figures,
the declared ABC performance for our evening titles showed
an average decline of 6.8%. The underlying figure represents
a fall of 4.2%. This followed a decline of 4.9% in the first
half, which equated to a reduction of 3.6% after allowing
for a planned reduction in bulks. Behind those disappointing
headline figures, there were some notably improved
performances including a second-half increase of 0.9% 
at the Hartlepool Mail and for the Scarborough Evening
News, which just fell short of equalling last year’s sale.
During 2004, we commissioned an extensive market
research exercise, at a total cost of almost £1 million, 
to research 65 of our titles including 10 of our 15 daily
newspapers. The results to date have been very encouraging
in terms of indicated readership levels and the percentage
of people who turn to our titles first when seeking items to
purchase. For example, 81% of the people in Blackpool
turn to the Blackpool Gazette first when looking for a job
and 89% turn to it first for properties. We also commissioned
separate market research exercises for two of our dailies,
the Sheffield Star and the Yorkshire Post, to probe in detail
the attitudes of readers towards the titles and to understand
better how our content may need to be adapted to meet
changing needs and tastes. The approach used in Sheffield
will be used as a template for similar research which we will
carry out for some of our other daily titles.
Following its development in Sunderland, all of our daily
centres around the Group are now utilising a database
driven approach to data capture to improve our canvassing
activities and reader retention. The Group’s Daily Newspaper
Sales Forum, which is tasked with driving improvements in
newspaper sales performance, has also made good
progress in identifying and encouraging best practice. 
This has resulted in beneficial changes to our working
relationship with newsagents, better use of point of sale
materials, more effective promotional support and a clearer
understanding of the effect of differing publishing times on
the sale. In addition, we have increased the number of
added value supplements which are being incorporated into
various of our daily titles in an effort to improve the
attractiveness of the newspaper package on each day of
the week, thereby encouraging an increase in purchasing
frequency. Whilst none of these actions will result in a rapid
turnaround, we remain confident that they will contribute to
an improvement in longer-term performance.
Content
The Johnston Press editorial policy guidelines enshrine
the right of editors to determine both content and their
editorial approach free from management interference,
subject only to the broadest guidance concerning the
general standards which we expect our newspapers to
reflect, including observance of the Press Complaints
Commission’s Code of Practice. Our commitment to
editorial freedom has been reinforced by the establishment
of the Editorial Review Group. This group, which includes 
a number of daily and weekly editors, has a wide ranging
remit which includes an objective to raise editorial standards,
to provide expert advice on the recruitment and training of
editors, to act as a guardian of editorial freedom and to
provide expert advice to Group management on editorial
and related issues.
During the course of 2004, our newspapers covered a
vast range of stories and a few illustrative examples follow.
Additionally, the Corporate Social Responsibility Statement
on pages 41 to 45 provides details of the numerous ways in
which our newspapers serve their local communities; in fact,
Editorial policy guidelines
enshrine the right of editors 
to determine both content and 
their editorial approach free 
from management interference Johnston Press plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 200423
a substantial part of our editorial coverage is devoted to
important local issues, campaigns on behalf of communities
and to supporting good causes and charitable
organisations in their fundraising efforts. Indeed, many of
our employees are actively involved in this charitable work,
a perfect example of which was the many and varied ways
they raised funds for the Tsunami disaster appeals.
Investigative journalism continues to play an important
part in the role of local newspapers. The Motherwell Times
exposed a security blunder which resulted in a prisoner
walking free, despite facing further charges. The Yorkshire
Post’s investigation into the activities of the BNP persuaded
the Prime Minister to condemn the party publicly for the
first time. A series of Sheffield Star reports on policing has
been welcomed by the Chief Constable of South Yorkshire
as a valuable contribution to the formulation of future
policing policies.
Campaigning journalism lies at the very heart of our
editorial agenda and forms a vital part of newspaper content.
In Portsmouth, The News, through “Last Chance for Justice”,
continues to seek a specific Arctic Medal for those men
who took part in the Arctic campaign of World War II. The
Northumberland Gazette campaigned strongly against an
elected Northeast Regional Assembly. The Cumbernauld
News supported a Gulf War veterans’ successful campaign
for a public inquiry into the causes and effects of so-called
Gulf War Syndrome. The Glenrothes Gazette has
successfully campaigned for a War Memorial to be erected
following the death in Iraq of two Black Watch soldiers from
the town. The Yorkshire Evening Post helped to persuade
the Home Secretary to close a loophole in the law which
allowed juveniles who cause misery to remain anonymous.
However, the vast majority of our campaigns are devoted to
vital local concerns over aspects which impinge directly on
peoples’ everyday lives. Our newspapers also support
numerous appeals, many of which tend to be associated
with health-related issues. However, there are a vast number
of others, including, in 2004, a Yorkshire Post appeal which
raised £70,000 from readers in just 27 days to help keep
the Flying Scotsman, the world’s most famous steam
locomotive, in Yorkshire.
Many important national stories start life in the local press.
Perhaps the most notable in 2004 was the Yorkshire Evening
Post exclusive concerning the death of Sergeant Steven
Roberts, the first British soldier to be killed in Iraq. Features
editor, Anne Pickles, won the trust of Sergeant Roberts’
widow whose story resulted in a series of exclusive features
Campaigning
Journalism
