 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 12
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
2005 was a 
notable year 
for acquisitions
with major advances 
in Scotland and Ireland.
The trading environment in 2005
proved to be more difficult for the
regional press than at any time since
the early 1990s. For Johnston Press,
this resulted in a reduction in like-
for-like advertising revenues of 3.7%.
When using the term like-for-like,
this excludes all businesses acquired
in 2005 and compares the 52 weeks
trading in 2005 with the same
52 weeks in 2004. Against this
challenging background,
compounded by an increase in
newsprint prices, it is pleasing to be
able to report another set of record
results. 2005 was also a notable year
for acquisitions with major advances
in both Scotland and Ireland. Our
digital publishing activities continued
to exhibit strong growth, our major
capital expenditure programmes
remain on track and our ongoing
organic growth plans delivered over
50 new publications in the year.
Tim Bowdler
Chief Executive Officer
Industry Development
After a period of relative calm since
2002 when we acquired Regional
Independent Media Holdings Ltd
(RIM), 2005 witnessed a resurgence of
industry restructuring with Johnston
Press at the forefront of events. 
These changes have enabled us to
build on our consistent strategy of
being a leading industry consolidator. 
This process has been given renewed
focus by the decision in late 2005 of
Daily Mail & General Trust plc (DMGT)
to explore the possible sale of
Northcliffe Newspapers, its regional
newspaper subsidiary and one of the
big 4 publishers in the sector.
Although DMGT ultimately decided to
retain Northcliffe, their willingness to
consider its disposal suggests that
further change may well occur in our
sector, providing yet more
opportunities for continued targeted
growth by Johnston Press in the
coming years. We are equally
confident that consolidation is the greatest possible safeguard for a
healthy regional press and that it will
prove to be in the best long-term
interests of readers, advertisers,
shareholders and the industry itself,
including those who work in it.
The changes introduced in the
Communications Act 2003 have also
helped to simplify the process of
consolidation and during 2005 this has
enabled Johnston Press to complete
transactions which might not have
been pursued under the previous
regime. Whilst it is too early to form
any definitive views, we continue to
believe that over time, the regulators
will take a broader view of market
definition in their assessment of
proposed newspaper mergers, thereby
easing the process of continued
industry consolidation.
Acquisitions
During 2005, the Group announced a
total of seven acquisitions, with a total
consideration, excluding related costs,
of £469m. Of these, the largest and
most recent was The Scotsman
Publications Limited (TSPL), for
£160m, announced on 19 December
and completed on 4 January 2006. In
addition to its flagship Scotsman title,
the company also publishes a paid-for
Sunday newspaper, Scotland on
Sunday, and covering the Edinburgh
and Lothian markets, the Evening
News as well as the weekly free Herald
& Post series. Its Scotsman.com
website is one of Scotland’s leading
sites registering over 20 million page
impressions and 3 million monthly
unique users in the most recent ABC
audit. In addition to its stable of market
leading brands, TSPL represents an
excellent geographic fit with our
existing weekly newspaper portfolio 
in Scotland and will provide good
opportunities for performance
improvement and growth. As with all 
of the acquisitions made during the
year, we expect the acquisition of
TSPL, before any non-recurring
restructuring costs, to be earnings
enhancing in 2006. 
On almost as large a scale, on 
9 August, we acquired Score Press
Limited (Score) from Emap plc for
£155m. Score represented the
newspaper interests of Scottish Radio
Holdings plc (SRH) and the deal was
made possible as a result of the
acquisition of SRH by Emap. 
The acquisition involved 35 weekly
newspaper titles with 13 in Scotland,
17 in Northern Ireland and 5 in the
Republic of Ireland. 28 of the titles are
paid-for and 7 are free. The integration
of Score’s Scottish titles into our
existing Scottish business is well
advanced and the deal also provided
the Group with its first presence on
the island of Ireland. The overall
performance of Score since
acquisition has exceeded our
expectations at the time of the deal.
Following the acquisition of Score we
were keen to expand our presence in
both Northern Ireland and the Republic.
This objective was entirely consistent
with our acquisitive growth strategy and
had the added incentive of becoming a
bigger player in the fast growing
Republic of Ireland marketplace which
has recently experienced double digit
advertising revenue growth rates. 
Two opportunities to meet this objective
occurred in rapid succession and the
Group was successful in securing these
to become a leading publisher of
regional and local newspapers both
north and south of the border.
The first deal, completed on 
4 November, was the acquisition of
Local Press Limited (LPL), in which 3i
plc was the principal shareholder. In
addition to the daily News Letter, LPL
also publishes 6 weekly newspapers in
Northern Ireland and 3 in the County of
Donegal in the Republic. 7 of the titles
are paid-for and 3 are free. Combined
with Score’s Northern Irish titles, the
acquisition of LPL gives the Group
excellent coverage across much of the
Province and integration opportunities
which will improve performance as well
as benefiting readers and advertisers. 
The acquisition of Leinster Leader (LL),
a private company owned by 27
separate shareholders, was completed
on 14 December. LL publishes 6 titles,
and with the exception of the Limerick
Leader which is published 4 times per
week, all are paid-for weekly
newspapers. Combined with the 5
Score titles, the acquisition of LL gives
the Group critical mass in the Republic
of Ireland and the opportunity to
consolidate the separate operations
into an integrated business. There are
considerable opportunities for the
combined business in this high growth
economy, not least from much needed
investment in IT systems to improve
efficiency and customer service. 
Although on a much smaller scale, 3
other acquisitions were also completed
during the year. The first was Thorne
Gazette on 16 May, a publisher
distributing 20,000 free newspapers in
an area of South Yorkshire as well as a
title for the region’s farming community
and a visitors’ guide for Lincolnshire.
The business has already been
integrated with our existing activities in
the region and its performance has
exceeded expectations.
On 3 August, the Group acquired the
entire share capital of Best Asian
Media Ltd, a company which distributes
a fortnightly free newspaper, Asian Life
Magazine and EID magazine for the
Asian community in the Northwest of
England. The previous owners and
management have remained with the
business and are working on plans to
expand its activities through a series
of related new launches. 
The third small acquisition, 
announced on 9 December, was
Ashwell Associates Ltd, publishers of
the paid-for weekly newspapers, The
Rutland Times and Bourne Local, as
well as Embrace, Your Perfect Day and
Your Country, specialist publications
focused on the county of Rutland. The
business has already been integrated
with our Welland Valley Newspapers
subsidiary based in Stamford.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 13 areas include leaflet distribution
through the Group’s dedicated
Letterbox Direct subsidiary,
promotional coupon offers through
Offer Pack which was acquired in
2004, reader holidays, where we
promote and provide tailored holidays
and events packages, premium line
offerings which primarily relate to
dating services, local exhibitions and
events such as fashion shows and the
syndication of our editorial content.
Trading Performance
As indicated above, 2005 was a
challenging period with trading
becoming more difficult as the year
progressed. All advertising revenue
percentages in this commentary are
shown on a like-for-like basis. After a
marginal advertising revenue decline 
of 1.5% in the first six months, the
second half witnessed a fall of 6.0%.
We are confident that this advertising
downturn, which affected the regional
press generally as well as many other
sectors of the media, was primarily
cyclical in nature reflecting weaker
consumer confidence, partly fuelled by
a flatter property market and a cutback
in recruitment by a number of
employers. Only the Northeast of
England and Scotland achieved growth
with all other markets suffering year-on-
year declines.
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
continued
We are pleased with the progress
made so far in integrating all these
acquired businesses. 
As a result of these acquisitions,
Johnston Press now publishes 301
titles of which 3 are paid-for morning
newspapers, 15 are paid-for evenings,
158 are paid-for weeklies, 118 are free
weeklies, 2 paid-for Sunday titles and
5 weekly magazines. The total number
of copies published per edition stands
at 7.1 million with 0.2 million of these
being in the Republic of Ireland.
Johnston Press is now the second
largest regional newspaper publisher in
the UK.
Connecting Communities
The Group also continues to pursue its
organic growth strategy which
recognises the opportunity and need to
reach local communities through an
increasing array of media channels,
especially digital. This strategy is built
on the underlying fact that “Life is
Local”. The publishing rationale of
Johnston Press is to be the leading
purveyor of news, information and
related services to the communities it
serves, thereby providing the primary
and most effective means for
advertisers to reach those communities.
Industry research continues to provide
strong evidence of consumer behaviour
which underpins this approach.
In print, the Group has an active policy
of encouraging its local publishing
companies to seek opportunities
capable of generating new revenue
streams. During 2005, this resulted in
the launch of well over 50 new
publications including 47 community
newspapers, 5 monthly lifestyle
magazines and, additionally, numerous
niche publications. In total, we now
publish 58 community newspapers.
These are typically monthly free pick-
up newspapers servicing small
communities in rural areas and
selected suburbs of larger cities. 
They contain local ‘parish pump’ news
and allow small local businesses to
advertise in a very targeted and cost
effective manner. 
The continuing growth and
development of our digital publishing
activities is a vital and central part of
our organic growth strategy. We have
a total of 288 community websites
including those operated by the newly
acquired companies. These are an
integral component in each of our
publishing centres’ portfolios, offering
users the opportunity to access a vast
range of information and to interact
with us via the internet and from
mobile devices. 
Without dismissing the possibility of
acquiring an internet business which
would complement our local offerings,
our approach is primarily dependent on
the organic development of digital
platforms which build on the strength 
of our local brands and market
position, providing a natural extension
to our existing publishing activities.
More details of our digital publishing
activities are provided in a later section
of this report on pages 16 and 17.
In addition to the initiatives outlined
above, the Group is also pursuing
organic growth opportunities in
services which are closely related to
our local publishing and newspaper
delivery activities. Examples of such
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 14 The greatest shortfall year-on-year was
in recruitment advertising which fell by
17.3%, comprising 12.1% in the first
half and 23.7% in the second, entirely
as a result of reduced volumes.
This represents our most volatile
advertising category and it followed a
similar pattern in the last significant
downturn in the early 1990s.
The impact was felt across the entire
spread of the Group’s publishing areas.
Property advertising performed
strongly, up 13.7% overall and
increasing by 15.9% and 11.3%
respectively in the first and second
halves. The healthy growth reflected
the need for vendors, house-builders
in particular, to advertise more heavily
in a flatter market. All areas of the
country grew, with Scotland the
strongest and the South of England
weakest.
Motors advertising continued its
lacklustre performance with an overall
decline of 5.2%, falling in each half by
3.9% and 6.7% respectively.
Continued dealer ownership changes
and consolidation, coupled with poor
car sales, combined to keep
performance depressed. Only the
Northeast division achieved growth in
this category.
The other classified category
performed well, growing by 5.5%,
4.1% in the first half and the strong
increase of 7.0% in the second fuelled
by the need for licensed premises to
re-apply for liquor licences following
the introduction of new licensing laws.
In the display category, there was an
overall decline of 2.4%, made up of
0.6% in the first half and 4.1% in the
second. This was despite strong
growth in special features as a result of
the proactive efforts of our sales teams
to stimulate additional revenues. The
overall performance reflected tougher
conditions on the High Street in all
markets, although marginal growth was
achieved in the South Midlands.
Given the difficult trading environment
and taking into account the increased
cost of newsprint, the Group did 
well to raise operating margins, from
34.0% to 34.8% as shown on page
20. This performance reflects the
benefits of our continuing programme
of investment in modern IT systems to
drive efficiency, good control of costs
and actions taken to mitigate the
increase in the cost of newsprint.
Operating Review
The Group maintains a strong focus
on revenue growth initiatives and, as
outlined above, this resulted in a
record number of new publications
during the year. Each is regularly
monitored to ensure that it makes a
positive contribution to the Group’s
profitability. Our intranet-based ADS4U
database of advertising ideas and
creative copy is now firmly embedded
as an invaluable tool for all advertising
sales staff, assisting the dissemination
of best practice around the Group,
providing a more professional service
to advertisers and helping to generate
additional revenues.
Our close working relationship with
Mediaforce, the independent national
sales-house which represents all
Johnston Press titles with national and a
number of regional advertising
agencies, continues to form an integral
part of our sales operations. The recently
established creative sales unit within
Mediaforce assisted in the capture of
new business for Johnston Press from
clients such as Baxters and RIAS, as
well as winning back clients such as
Powerhouse and ATS from other media.
National advertising also benefited from
General Election advertising from
various political parties. 
The importance of the Group’s
continuing programme of investment in
new IT systems cannot be overstated in
terms of its positive impact on business
efficiency and customer service levels.
During the year, progress was made in a
number of key areas. 
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 15
Top to bottom.
- Limerick Leader acquired in 2005.
- Over £110 million invested in
upgrading our printing facilities.
- Upgraded distribution systems.
301
publications Chief Executive Officer’s Review
continued
Our drive towards common systems
made strong advances with the
implementation of new advertising
front-end systems in the Northwest
and new editorial systems in the South
and South Midlands. This programme
will continue in 2006 with investment
planned in Yorkshire, Ireland and
Scotland. We are well into the roll-out
of a Group-wide newspaper sales
system which will be completed during
the current year. We have transferred
to Thus plc as our infrastructure
provider for our wide area network and
continued progress has been made in
the installation of voice-over IP
telephony across the Group which will
deliver significant cost savings. 
Considerable progress has also been
made in automating our customer
interfaces, with many estate agents
now producing and uploading their
content electronically and more
advertisers using our internet-based
solution to place advertisements with
us. The growing extent of IT
standardisation across the Group has
also enabled us to improve the
technical support function with the
strengthening of our central help desk
in Leeds. All of this investment has
allowed the Group to consolidate
further a number of pre-press centres
including those in the South, East
Midlands, the North and Northeast.
Health and safety remains a key area of
focus for the Group. Improvements to
our monitoring, reporting systems and
training have been made during the
year. The rolling audit of our systems
and procedures by a third party has
indicated a further general improvement
in adherence to our health and safety
procedures. There were 30 reportable
accidents in 2005, a small number for a
company of our size, and the vast
majority were very minor in nature.
During the year, more of our titles
celebrated important milestones,
notably 150th anniversaries for the
Bury Free Press, the Sudbury based
Suffolk Free Press and The Southern
Reporter in the Borders. 
A number of our newspapers and staff
were also recognised for their
achievements with awards including
The Southern Reporter being voted as
the Newspaper Society’s Scottish
weekly “newspaper of the year” for the
fourth successive occasion.
Digital Publishing
The growth and development of our
digital publishing activities during 2005
has been considerable, reflecting the
strong focus which Johnston Press
continues to place on this aspect of our
business. The Group now has 288 local
or regional websites, including those
operated by the newly acquired
companies, with page impressions
having grown by 49%, exceeding 30
million per month and unique users now
around 2.5 million per month. Total
online revenues increased by 32% to
reach £8.3 million, producing a
contribution to profit of £5.8 million.
The Group announced in September
that it had agreed a £60,000 annual
sponsorship of a Chair in Digital
Journalism at the University of Central
Lancashire (UCLan) for a three year
period. Johnston Press’s partnership
with UCLan, which combines the
expertise of one of the top journalism
departments in the country with one of
the UK's major regional newspaper
groups, represents a unique opportunity
in the development of new digital
applications.
During the year, we increased the size
of our development team based in
Peterborough by 20% and resource
around the Group was also
strengthened. We have appointed
category managers for each of our
jobs, motors and property sites and, in
addition, an online editorial content
champion. Assisted by those
appointments, we are in the process
of a further programme of
enhancements and upgrades to each
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 16
Top to bottom.
- Jobs Today, recruitment website. 
- Lot 24-7, auction website, launched
in 2005.
- Leeds Today - local news, sport and
listings.
288
regional websites Our auction site Lot24-7.co.uk was
launched at the end of 2005 
and will utilise the combination of our
newspapers and local websites to
create a truly local and differentiated
auction service. Our digital offering is
also providing users with an increasing
range of services with developments in
2005 including a real time news service
to mobile phones, greater depth of
content within our classified search
engines and electronic versions of a
number of our printed daily newspapers
available by subscription online.
Our continuing investment in
advertising front-end systems has also
improved the structure and quality of
data obtained from our advertisers
and, together with a growing database
of information on our readers, good
progress is being made in the
introduction and use of our customer
relations management (CRM)
programme. This, as with our entire
of our classified sites with re-launches
planned during the course of 2006. 
In addition, we have launched a
project in Preston to act as a test-bed
in the development of the “newsroom
of the future”, in which content will be
gathered and disseminated through a
variety of print and digital channels in
a media-neutral manner.
A number of new services have been
developed and launched during 2005.
The most successful in revenue terms
has been the roll-out of our online CV
matching service which is now
generating around £30k per week from
a database of 6,000 active CVs and
over 60,000 registered users. The
redesign and re-launch of our local
directory service under the Local
Pages brand has proved very popular
with users and advertisers. The sales
of links to electronically formatted
versions of newspaper advertisements
have generated strong revenue growth. 
digital publishing development
programme, remains central to the
Group’s overall progress.
Printing
The key developments for our Printing
Division during 2005 have been
dominated by the major new press
projects at Dinnington, near Sheffield,
and at Portsmouth. With a total
expenditure in excess of £100m and
backed by 15-year supply contracts
with News International (NI), these
represent by far the largest and most
exciting press projects in the Group’s
history. It is pleasing to report that
both projects are proceeding to plan in
terms of cost and timescale. 
The Dinnington building is largely
complete and equipment is in the
course of installation for start-up in the
third quarter of 2006. At Portsmouth,
demolition work is complete, building
work has commenced, the publishing
offices refurbished and start-up is
planned for 12 months after Dinnington.
At Leeds, a digital inking system has
been installed and the refurbishment
of the mailroom has begun. 
At Peterborough, the press is being
extended to ensure that we meet the
increasing demand for colour. 
Once completed, this project will allow
the press to print 160 pages with
every one in colour.
Reflecting the need of all of our titles
for high quality colour printing and for
the Group to maximise the return on
its press investment programme, the
Halifax press was closed during 2005
with printing being transferred to
Leeds. Plans have also been
announced for the closure of our
pressrooms in Scarborough, Wakefield
and Sheffield, the latter two to take
place once the new Dinnington press
comes on stream. The acquisitions
made during 2005 have also brought
additional pressrooms to the Group, in
Edinburgh and Forfar in Scotland with
two in the Republic of Ireland and
three in Northern Ireland.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 17 In view of the increased price of
newsprint in 2005, the Group took
steps to mitigate the impact on costs
including the standardisation of web
width to the NI standard. This will also
be helpful when the new presses in
Dinnington and Portsmouth come on
stream in view of the NI contracts.
Prices of newsprint for the current year
have increased by a similar amount to
2005 and further measures to partially
mitigate the effect are already in place.
Circulations
For the year as a whole, circulation
revenues increased on a like-for-like
basis by 1.8%, the majority of the
increase coming in the second half of
the year. During 2005, we increased
the cover price of over 70% of our
paid-for newspapers. This takes no
account of The Scotsman and the
Leinster Leader Group, which only
became part of the Group at the turn
of the year. 
After seven consecutive years of
growth, the total sale of our weekly
titles fell in the second half of 2004, 
a trend which continued in 2005 with
reductions of 2.1% and 2.4% in the
first and second halves respectively
contributing to an overall fall of 2.3%.
The more difficult trading environment,
with its adverse impact on advertising
volumes, is undoubtedly a factor in
this decline but, that said, penetration
levels remain extremely high and, with
relatively static population numbers, it
is unrealistic to expect a perpetual
increase in the overall sale. The key
factor is the high market penetrations
being achieved and thereby the
unrivalled extent to which advertisers
are able to reach local communities
with their messages.
The circulation performance of our
daily titles remains broadly unchanged
with an overall decline over the year of
5.5% comprising 6.5% in the first half
and 4.5% in the second. The first half
figure was depressed by the final stage
in the process of removing bulk sales
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 18
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
continued
from our reported ABC figures. All of
the daily newspapers we published
throughout 2005 achieved 100%
actively purchased status. The figures
were also adversely affected by steps
taken to address the issue of bad debt
on our direct delivery sales. 
The Group’s Daily Newspaper Sales
Forum has made good progress in
ensuring the adoption of best practice
at all centres and in evolving new
approaches to address the underlying
circulation issues. This includes using
the Group’s strength to improve our
reader offers and promotional activity,
publishing our titles earlier in the day to
match the shopping habits of our
readers and collecting detailed
customer data to enable us to tailor
our service accordingly. In addition, we
have undertaken a number of research
projects that have given us a clearer
understanding of our readers’ opinions,
purchasing habits and expectations for
the future. However, behind the
disappointing figures, the market
penetration of our daily titles remains
strong and they continue to deliver
good advertiser response levels. 
When combined with our local
websites, we can offer a significantly
increased audience reach to
advertisers. We have installed an online
market measurement tool which
enables us to provide advertisers with
an estimate of total market reach after
removing those users who are also
newspaper readers.
Content
Community involvement remains the
cornerstone of the editorial approach
for all of our newspaper titles, within a
framework which guarantees editors the
freedom to edit without management
interference. The Corporate Social
Responsibility Statement on pages 37
to 42 provides details of the numerous
ways in which our newspapers serve
their local communities through
campaigns, championing good
causes, supporting charitable
Top to bottom.
- The Dewsbury Reporter. 
- The News in Portsmouth.
- The Sunderland Echo.
local
communities
serving Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 19
organisations, leading fundraising
efforts, exposing wrong-doing and
celebrating success. Quite simply, our
newspapers are the voice and
conscience of the communities they
serve, having a pivotal role in
community life. As a Company, we are
acutely conscious of the heavy
responsibility which our editors bear. 
In recognition of the important role of
our editors, we have strengthened the
Editorial Review Group which has
continued to perform a valuable role in
supporting editors and encouraging the
improvement of standards generally. 
In addition to their involvement in the
appointment of editors, we have
extended the use of a “buddying”
system for all those newly appointed
to the editor’s chair.
Our acquisitions during 2005 have
brought various new titles to the Group
and from an editorial standpoint, high
profile newspapers such as The
Scotsman, Scotland on Sunday and
the News Letter in Northern Ireland.
These titles, like the Yorkshire Post,
have a more discernable editorial
stance than is typical of many of our
newspapers and, whilst we are totally
committed to the maintenance of the
highest editorial standards and
investment in good content, we do not
intend to alter our editorial policy
which leaves content decisions firmly
and clearly with each individual editor.
In accordance with this, Johnston
Press editors are encouraged to
vigorously pursue investigative
journalism and worthwhile campaigns.
In that regard, it is particularly pleasing
to note the successful outcome of the
long running campaign by The News
in Portsmouth to seek a specific Arctic
Medal for those men who took part in
the Arctic Campaign of World War II.
Organisation and People
2005 has been a particularly
challenging year, not only as we have
had to manage through a more difficult
trading environment but also due to
the heavy programme of acquisitions
which inevitably places additional
burdens on those involved during the
negotiations and the subsequent
integration process. Our ability to deal
with these added pressures is a
testament to the strengths and quality
of our management and has
undoubtedly been assisted by the
continuing stability within our Head
Office and Senior Management teams.
Following the various acquisitions
made during the year and the resultant
increase in the size of the Group, we
have made several key management
appointments and organisational
changes. Running our businesses in
Northern Ireland and the Republic of
Ireland respectively, we welcome 
Jean Long and Barry Brennan to the
Divisional Management team. 
Jean was the previous Chief Executive
of LPL and Barry was Group Marketing
Director at Independent News & Media
plc. Michael Johnston has relocated
from Portsmouth, where he was
Managing Director of our South of
England division, to Edinburgh to run
The Scotsman Publications Limited
and the enlarged Scottish division.
Michael has been replaced in
Portsmouth by Gary Fearon who was
previously Managing Director of our
Northeast division. We have combined
the North division, headquartered in
Leeds, with the Sheffield based North
Midlands and South Yorkshire division
and the Northeast division based in
Sunderland, under the leadership of
Chris Green. A similar combination of
the East and South Midlands divisions,
led by Nick Mills, has been made
possible by the appointment of Chris
Pennock to the role of Group
Newspaper Sales and Marketing
Director.
We continue to place strong emphasis
on skills-based training and
management development which has
included the introduction of a new
Senior Management Development
Programme run by Kaizen Training. 
We have also strengthened our
succession planning processes and
continue to embrace our commitment
to being a caring and responsible
employer.
The fact that Johnston Press
produced such good results in 2005
against such a difficult trading
background speaks volumes for the
professionalism, hard work and
commitment of all of our staff. I would
like to express my personal thanks to
all our staff and I am pleased that the
Board has agreed to recognise and
reward those efforts by once again
permitting all qualifying employees,
representing the substantial majority
of those we employ, to receive free
Johnston Press shares to be granted
under the Group’s Share Incentive
Plan.
Tim BOWDLER
Chief Executive Officer
8 March 2006
