 Roger Parry
Chairman
Chairman’s Statement
In 2005 Johnston Press was able to
achieve a robust profit performance
despite the significant downturn in
recruitment advertising experienced
by the industry as a whole. 
The growth in profit before tax
reflects tight cost controls and
increased business efficiencies as
well as the development of new
revenue streams including those 
from web-based products aimed at
local markets. In the face of difficult
trading conditions the staff of
Johnston Press have shown
themselves to be flexible and highly
effective. On behalf of shareholders, 
I would like to congratulate them all
on the results they have achieved. 
Results
Overall revenues for the year were
£520.2 million. This was up only 
0.2% on 2004 reflecting the significant
downturn in recruitment advertising.
Operating profit for 2005 was 
£177.7 million, flat on a 53 week 2004.
Underlying earnings per share were
38.62p, up 2%.
Serving local communities
through the provision of news,
information and entertainment
has been at the heart of the
Johnston Press culture for
more than 150 years. 
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 10
Dividend
The Board proposes a final dividend of
5.6p per share, making a total of 8.4p 
per share for the year. This compares
to 7.2p per share in 2004, an increase
of 17%.
Growth in local media
During the year we were successful in
making a number of acquisitions of
companies which specialise in local
publishing. The principal acquisitions
were Score Press Ltd, Leinster Leader
Ltd, Local Press Ltd and finally The
Scotsman Publications Ltd, which did
not complete until 4 January 2006 and
therefore has not been consolidated
into the 2005 results. The process of
integrating these businesses into the
existing Johnston Press management
structure is going well. This means we
have acquired more than 50 new print
titles in Scotland, Northern Ireland and
the Republic of Ireland. The majority of
these are weekly publications but they
include three notable daily titles, The
News Letter in Northern Ireland, The
Scotsman and The Edinburgh Evening News, in addition to our first paid-for
Sunday title, Scotland on Sunday.
These acquisitions bring the total of
local weekly and daily newspapers
published by Johnston Press to more
than 300. In addition we publish many
hundreds of other specialist local
publications and operate more than
250 websites. 
Classified advertising
About half the Group’s income comes
from the sale of classified advertising.
During 2005, property advertising grew
strongly, motors fell marginally but there
was a significant reduction in spending
by companies and the public sector
seeking to recruit staff. On the evidence
available to us, we believe that this
significant drop in recruitment
advertising is cyclical rather than
structural. It would appear to reflect
government policy in terms of cutting
back on local government recruitment
and a general slowdown in the
economy rather than migration of
spending to websites. Having said this,
however, the Board of Johnston Press
does recognise that web-based
recruitment advertising is attractive to
employers. Accordingly, we are
devoting significant management time
and resource to the continuing
development of our own web-based
products. In this context it is very
pleasing to note the significant success
of our web-based CV matching service.
This enables candidates for jobs and
providers of employment to match up
their respective objectives. Our new
revenues from CV matching in 2005
were £1.1 million.
Investment in the business
In addition to developing our web-
based publishing, we have continued
to demonstrate our commitment to
equipping our business with the best
available technology. Our new £60
million investment in a triple-width
press in Sheffield will be coming on-
stream in the third quarter of 2006.
The similar installation in Portsmouth
at a cost of £50 million will be coming
on-stream a year later. At the time of
writing, both projects are to schedule
and coming in below budget. These
new presses will significantly increase
our ability to print in colour. 
Strategy
Serving local communities through the
provision of news, information and
entertainment has been at the heart of
the Johnston Press culture for more
than 150 years. This mission remains
the driving principle of the company.
Johnston Press is often called a local
newspaper publisher but this is
increasingly an inaccurate description
of what the company really does. It is
true that we are primarily focused on
local communities rather than national
markets but we serve those
communities through a wide range of
publications, both printed and digital.
In many of our markets our portfolio
includes a wide range of print
publications such as lifestyle guides,
property magazines and motoring
supplements in addition to our
newspapers. All the communities we
serve now have our local websites
available to them.
Board
Other than the appointments of 
Mr Danny Cammiade and Mr Les
Hinton on 17 March 2005 which I
reported last year, there have been no
changes to the membership of your
Board. It consists of five independent
non-executives, two non-executives
representing the Johnston family
interest, three executives and myself.
Each year the Board is subject to an
analysis of its own performance. 
The 2005 performance review
suggests the Board continues to
function well and it remains compliant
with all aspects of the Combined Code. 
Prospects
In the early weeks of 2006 the
advertising market remains challenging
with no early signs of recovery. The
Group remains committed to
improving operating efficiencies and
maintaining a tight control of costs.
The Board is delighted with progress
made integrating our recent
acquisitions and, providing market
conditions do not significantly worsen,
we are confident that 2006 will again
be a year of progress in building our
local media franchises.
Roger PARRY
Chairman
8 March 2006
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 11
