 12 | Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s 
Report
2012 was my first full year as Chief 
Executive, one marked by the rapid 
pace of change in our industry as  
well as within Johnston Press.
The benefits of these changes will be felt 
during 2013, with 2012 being very much a 
transitional year during which we grew our 
digital audience considerably from 8.1 million 
a month to 9.8 million a month, resulting in an 
aggregate print and digital audience growth of 
over 5%. Digital revenues increased 12.0% to 
£20.6 million, providing a solid base for 2013.
During 2012 our key priorities included 
reducing our net debt and our operating  
cost base. Despite £11.8 million of 
refinancing costs, we reduced our net debt 
from £351.7 million to £319.4 million during 
the year and our cost base was reduced  
by £37.6 million (12.2%) from £309.3 million  
to £271.7 million. As a result, our operating 
margins increased slightly to 17.4%.
Our underlying operating profit (before 
non-recurring and IAS 21/39 items) for 2012  
fell by 4.7% after adjusting for the impact  
of the proactively agreed partial cancellation  
of the News International printing contract. 
This change to our arrangements with News 
International contributed (£3.9 million) to  
the reduction in the headline profit to £57.0 
million (down 11.6% on 2011) but also 
delivered a significant one-off cash receipt 
(£30.0 million) to considerably reduce our net 
debt. We have re-filled most of the vacated 
capacity. The 4.7% underlying profit decline 
compares favourably with 2011’s decline  
of 10.3% and the average annual decline 
between 2006 and 2010 of 19.1%. We are 
stemming the rate of profit decline, and 
focussed on the twin financial priorities of 
returning the Group to profit growth, whilst 
continuing to pay down debt.
Our teams across the UK and Republic  
of Ireland have worked hard to deliver 
compelling and innovative solutions to 
advertisers, but overall print advertising 
revenue declined by 14.8% (or 13.5% in 
respect of ongoing 2013 titles) over the course  
of the year and remains indicative of the very 
challenging markets in which we operate.  
In 2013 our sales teams’ challenge is to  
use the improved technology, tools and 
propositions that we are putting in place  
to deliver improved performance.  
Trading remained very challenging in  
2012 with the ongoing effect of structural 
change in our industry being evident to all.  
For this reason there can be no let-up in  
our work to reposition Johnston Press  
for the modern media environment. 
Review of the Year
The year just ended has seen continued 
recession in the economies of the United 
Kingdom and Republic of Ireland, with 
economic challenges in the United Kingdom 
showing little sign of ending outside of London. 
Responding to this macro situation, we have 
embarked on a year of transformational 
change at Johnston Press. We have seen 
the implementation of a number of strategic 
initiatives focussed on improving efficiencies 
and saving costs as we continue to reshape 
the Group for its future as a local media 
provider. These include reducing the number 
of contact centres from fourteen to two; 
consolidating our printing into three sites from 
seven; off-shoring our pre-press operations; 
and taking out layers of senior management. 
These significant changes enabled us to take 
£37.6m out of the business, some 11.6% 
of the base cost and helped us to reduce 
our net debt to £319.4m from £371.7m 
immediately post re-financing. 
There were not-unexpected short term 
impacts on revenue line items during this 
transition, but we believe we are now set fair 
to be able to weather the trend of deteriorating 
performance in certain advertising categories 
that we reported in 2011 and that continued 
into 2012. Like others in our sector, we saw a 
negative impact from events over the summer, 
including the Jubilee Bank Holiday, European 
Football Championships and, in particular, the 
Olympic Games. 
Putting in place the infrastructure, technology 
and resources to get the top line back to growth 
was also a priority for 2012, the benefits of 
which should be felt in H2 of 2013 and beyond. 
By the end of the year, we had equipped all 
1,500 sales staff with Salesforce.com software 
and 800 with iPads (and over 350 of our 
journalists with new laptops and smart 
phones); relaunched 69 redesigned 
newspapers (on the way to relaunching over 
200 titles around five demographic clusters), 
over 200 mobile websites, 18 tablet apps and 
11 phone apps all across iPad/iPhone and 
Android platforms. We also upgraded all our 
websites, becoming along the way, one of the 
UK’s fastest growing and largest portfolio of 
regional publisher websites with average daily 
audience up 29.3% year-on-year to 560,000. 
Our plans have also seen many of our staff 
move to far better accommodation – suitable 
for our future needs.   Overview
 Business Review
 Directors & Governance
 Financial Statements
 Additional Information
 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | 13
We saw early signs of this in December,  
with year-on-year rates for local display  
and features advertising being down 5.4%,  
a significant improvement on third and fourth 
quarter run rates (see pages 18 and 19).  
We have a well-earned reputation in our 
industry for exceptional cost performance  
and in 2012 once again our teams delivered 
with our operating costs falling by £37.6 
million year-on-year. The profound change 
that our industry is experiencing has meant 
we have continued to need to reduce our 
workforce and the number of staff employed 
by the Group fell to just over 4,350 at the end 
of December, down 23.1% on 2011, inevitably 
with a degree of disruptive impact. 
Our regional organisational structure  
was radically reshaped in 2012, reducing  
a two-tier management structure of twenty 
five Managing Directors to a single structure 
of just eight Managing Directors. In addition  
to the consolidation of contact centres, we 
centralised and/or outsourced our pre-press, 
web creation and finance functions. This has 
been implemented with our stated objective  
of keeping our editorial and sales presence  
at the heart of the local communities where 
we publish.
The Group’s modern print facilities at 
Dinnington, Portsmouth and Carn remain 
state of the art, however changing print 
demands and the revised terms of our print 
arrangements have allowed us to look at our 
operations and rationalise our capacity. As 
well as the closure of our Isle of Man print 
facility at the beginning of 2012, our plants  
at Leeds, Peterborough and Sunderland  
were also closed during the year. 
I am pleased to say our work through the 
year, especially the focus on paying down 
debt, helped to raise our share price to  
levels which had not been seen for some 
time. Although we wish to see this grow  
a great deal more, we are pleased that  
there has been recognition for the strategy 
we are following.
Refinancing
As we reported last April, we successfully 
refinanced our existing lending facilities 
through to September 2015. We were  
able to do so in large part because of  
our continued focus on reducing debt  
and that remains a key objective for us  
in 2013 and beyond. The terms of our 
facilities provide strong incentives to 
implement an alternative debt structure  
by the end of 2014 and further priority  
to repaying debt is a key consideration. 
Strategy Update
Last year, in my first statement as Chief 
Executive, I laid out the priorities for our 
strategic development, recognising the key 
contribution that our printed products will 
make for many years, while emphasising  
our need to reinvigorate them, to see them 
develop further their audiences and bring  
our use of digital technology to the centre  
of everything we do. Our management has 
worked hard to identify the key steps in 
getting us back to growth – it is now our 
challenge to ensure we deliver. In 2012  
we started our process of relaunching our 
newspaper titles with 69 being completed  
by the end of the year. That programme is 
continuing and by the end of the first half  
of 2013 we will have completed our relaunch 
programme covering a total of 227 titles.  
This is a huge achievement for our team  
and one that is delivering attractive modern 
papers which we are confident will appeal  
to both a wider pool of advertisers and to  
key demographics and new audiences in  
our communities. Circulation revenues for 
relaunched titles, particularly towards the end 
of the year, were encouraging, up almost 8% 
in December 2012 against the same period 
last year. Further, relaunches have helped  
to drive increases in subscription rates  
which are now double the rates of our 
non-relaunched titles – a key objective for  
us. Subscriptions for our weekly titles have 
nearly doubled to just under 4% of total 
circulation while for The Scotsman, they 
increased from 15% in 2011 to 27% in 2012. 
Alongside the relaunch of our printed 
products, new websites are being delivered 
for all of our titles. Our overall audience 
(across print, online and mobile) grew in 2012 
– a direct result of the steps we are taking. 
Our journalists (who won 35 awards in 2012) 
are key to our ambitions to draw ever larger 
readership to our content by being able to 
capture stories in words, pictures, graphics 
and video and publish them in print, on our 
websites and through an expanding range  
of media and devices. 
We are aiming to ensure our editorial staff 
have the right equipment, software, training 
and working environments to operate in this 
new landscape – a project we are calling 
Journalism2015. This will be aligned to the 
development of all our staff through a new 
performance management and reward 
process. Our employees are key to our 
success and I would like to thank them  
for their dedication through a difficult time. 
Digital remains key to our future. After 
encouraging growth was experienced in 2012 
we must ensure we build on this while 
focusing on our audience quality by driving 
more loyal and frequent visitors. To do so,  
as well as the new websites, we have plans 
to deliver new product offerings across  
a number of areas as we have already  
done with the WOW24/7 entertainment  
What’s-On website.
Our combined digital and print offerings are 
now working well together. The frequency 
with which we packaged together local 
online display adverts with print advertising 
more than trebled over the year to around 
40% in 2012 and we were pleased that 
digital advertising revenues finished the  
year very strongly. In the coming year we  
will continue to improve the effectiveness  
of our sales operation to improve sales  
of longer series packages to advertisers, 
across more of our titles and websites,  
along with growing our local display  
and features advertising business. The 
considerable changes we put through  
the sales force in 2012 inevitably had a 
temporary disruptive effect on advertising 
revenues, especially classifieds.
Alongside all of this, we are building new 
skills and capabilities within our Group  
to accelerate the delivery of our bigger 
projects; improve our systems to help share 
content across the Group and accelerate  
the growth in our subscriber base; improve 
the technology we use (including getting 
better bandwidth to our outlying offices);  
and upgrade our mobile skills now that  
a third of our 10 million online users access 
us via their phones and tablets (up from 5% 
of online users in 2011). Throughout all of  
this our focus on costs will remain key and 
careful choices must be made as to where 
our resources are concentrated. I am pleased 
with the change in the business that we have 
been able to deliver with very careful cost 
management in 2012. The development of 
the Group will continue during 2013 at the 
same time as maintaining that control.
Summary
Our work to adapt our business to the 
changing environment in which we operate 
continues and we must be increasingly 
nimble and responsive to the demands  
it places on us. In the face of an economic 
outlook which remains difficult we will focus 
on getting our offering right in order to 
develop the Group and return it to growth. 
Our trusted local newspapers and brands 
remain key in doing this, and must be  
allied to the best use of both current and 
developing technology and the opportunities 
they can create for us. The demand for 
information about the communities in which 
people work and live has never been greater 
and we remain exceptionally well placed  
to serve that demand. The demand from 
advertisers to reach those communities  
in a targeted and cost-effective manner also 
grows. We are on a clear journey to become 
the ‘one-stop shop’ for advertisers and 
readers across all media in the communities  
we serve.
Ashley Highfield
Chief Executive Officer
