 8 JUST EAT plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic
Report
Corporate 
Governance
Financial
Statements
CEO’s Statement
Continued strategic progress
We are committed to leading the industry and improving our 
consumers’ experience. During 2014, we continued our mobile-
led product evolution, with our web refresh meaning users see 
the same product flow, whatever device they are using. We 
expanded our pilot in real-time order tracking with trials now  
in 11 restaurants. In the long-term, we believe our ability to 
innovate at scale will profoundly change the consumer 
experience and reinforce the benefits of building the leading 
market place for the fragmented takeaway industry.
Our technology gives us a real competitive advantage in bringing 
greater choice. JUST EAT has more than a decade of experience 
in building, operating and enhancing a complex real-time 
eCommerce platform. At peak, we now process 1,100 orders  
per minute through our contracted network, demonstrating  
our ability to reliably deliver scalable solutions to our 45,700 
restaurant partners. We have recently worked on expanding  
into the collection market and have now signed over 1,000 
collection-only restaurants in the UK; initial results from this 
market are positive.
Consumers trust strong brands. We believe that television 
remains the best way to reach a mass-market audience, to help 
create and strengthen our brand and accelerate channel shift 
from telephone to online. We remain strongly committed to 
building our brand in all of our markets, and we are now a TV 
brand in the majority of them. This investment increases loyalty 
and consumer allegiance to JUST EAT, ensuring we remain the 
clear choice for hungry consumers. In the UK, top-of-mind 
awareness
1 
increased from 39% in December 2013 to 44% 
in December 2014.
In our business, being market leader is critical for many reasons, 
crucially to ensure the consumer has a strong single source of 
information and choice in a highly fragmented sector. We 
continue to build clear leadership positions wherever we operate. 
In Brazil, we merged our business with iFood to give us a 25% 
share of the undisputed market leader, increasing our stake to 
30% after year-end. In France we increased our share in market 
leading alloresto.fr from 50% to 80%. These deals have 
strengthened our position in two of our key international 
markets. We also cemented our leadership position in Ireland 
with the purchase of Eatcity.ie in November 2014. 
Order growth is a key measure of 
JUST EAT’s success. It illustrates how 
well we have executed on our strategy 
and reinforces the attractiveness of  
our market for the long-term. In 2014, 
orders grew by 52% to 61.2 million, 
worth over £1 billion to our restaurant 
partners. 
Revenue grew 62% to £157.0 million. 
Underlying EBITDA increased to £32.6 
million from £14.1 million, which is an 
excellent result in a period where we 
made significant investment in our 
future growth. 
1 Based on a UK survey conducted by YouGov of adult takeaway users.  9 www.just-eat.com
Strategic
Report
Corporate 
Governance
Financial
Statements
14 1 £157.0m
13 £96.8m
12 £59.8m
11 £33.8m
14 1 61.2m
13 40.2m
12 25.3m
11 13.9m
14 1 £32.6m
13 £14.1m
12 £2.3m
11 £0.1m
Clear priorities
We have a clear focus on delivering on our three strategic 
initiatives, including completing appropriate M&A and developing 
our people for the long-term. 
We are continuing to increase our investment in engineering and 
product into 2015, to accelerate the introduction of new features 
on our platforms. We are driving channel shift through initiatives 
such as mobile and brand refresh; improving the consumer 
experience through innovation and improved information whilst 
expanding choice through restaurant signings. 
We completed seven M&A transactions during the year and three 
post year-end. These delivered on our stated aims of acquiring 
leaders in markets of scale, making in-market acquisitions and 
advancing our technology base. 
People are integral to what we do and we have an outstanding 
team of more than 1,500 passionate and dedicated JUST EATers. 
We are committed to enhancing our team by selective 
recruitment and developing our existing team through our 
in-house talent management programmes. We have opened a 
new office in Bristol with support from Invest Bristol & Bath and 
are building a relationship with the University of Bristol to attract 
the best technical engineering graduates in the West Country 
and Wales, an area with a history of success within the 
technology sector. 
Outlook
Looking forward, we must capitalise on our clear leadership 
positions both in established markets such as the UK and in 
large, developing markets such as France, Brazil and Spain, 
markets of significant scale but in which online ordering is still at 
an early stage. Building leadership positions in those markets will 
create great long-term value for shareholders.
Going into 2015, JUST EAT is in a very strong position. We are on 
track to deliver on our growth targets and in 2015 we currently 
expect revenues marginally in excess of £200 million, at current 
exchange rates. 
We will continue to drive channel shift and further strengthen 
our brand. We will also continue to innovate and then scale that 
innovation, to ensure new products and features are available  
to the vast majority of our 8.1 million Active Users, truly 
empowering them to love their takeaway experience.
David Buttress
CEO
#minifistpump
We remain strongly committed to building 
a brand in all of our markets, further 
supported by the launch of our 
#minifistpump campaign this year.
Revenue up 62% to
£157 .0M
Orders up 52% to
61.2M
Underlying EBITDA up 131% to
£32.6M
