 2 JUST EAT plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic
Report
Corporate 
Governance
Financial
Statements
At a Glance
What we do
At JUST EAT, we operate the world’s leading online and mobile 
marketplace for takeaway food, providing consumers with an 
easy and secure way to order and pay for food from local 
takeaway restaurants. Takeaway restaurants who join the 
JUST EAT platform have their menu made accessible to online 
consumers. These consumers search for local restaurants using 
their postcode and any cuisine preference. We transmit the 
details of their order to the takeaway restaurants via proprietary 
Just Connect Terminals (“JCTs”), which restaurants use to accept 
orders and send confirmations to the consumer. Once prepared, 
the restaurant will deliver the food to the consumer, who can 
choose to pay securely online at the point of ordering or cash 
upon delivery.
We derive the vast majority (76%) of our revenue from 
commission charged to restaurants on the value of successful 
orders placed. This, plus certain administration fees, typically 
related to card payments, comprise the B2C order-driven revenue 
that in total accounts for 89% of all revenues. The remaining 
11% of our revenue consists of one-off connection fees paid by 
restaurants to join JUST EAT, top-placement advertising fees 
and other revenues.
Our mission is to empower consumers to love their takeaway 
experience. It’s about providing breadth of selection, 
transparency, security and convenience. 
We want to give consumers better information and more choice. 
With the huge range of cuisines we offer through the 45,700 
contracted restaurant partners on our platforms, supported by 
over seven million reviews, consumers can make more informed 
choices than ever, whether ordering through online, mobile 
and apps.
Where we are
Since the first JUST EAT website was launched in Denmark in 
2001, we have expanded globally with operations in Belgium, 
Brazil, Canada, Denmark, France, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, 
Norway, Spain, Switzerland and the UK. In early 2015, we 
expanded into Mexico with the acquisition of Sindelantal Mexico. 
We are market leader in the majority of our countries; a key 
success factor in our sector. The UK, where we are clear market 
leader, is the largest of JUST EAT’s operations in terms of 
number of takeaway restaurants, orders and medium term 
opportunity, representing 73% of total Group revenues. 
Our team continues to grow with over 1,500 people now working 
for JUST EAT globally. Our headquarters are in the heart of 
London, but this is very much a local business and we have 
teams on the ground in every country including dedicated 
in-house customer care teams.
How We Generate V alue
People
Our people are integral to all 
that we do at JUST EAT. We 
have an outstanding central 
team who are responsible 
for designing, implementing, 
maintaining, supporting 
and promoting our websites 
and apps, as well as great 
local teams who lead sales, 
marketing and operational 
functions in-country. 
T echnology
Our technology is making 
life easier for consumers and 
restaurants. The JUST EAT 
system enables restaurants 
to efficiently manage their 
order process by reducing 
communication errors that 
could be made over the 
phone and reducing the 
time spent on processing. 
The JUST EAT websites and 
apps enable consumers 
to make informed choices 
about what food to order in 
a quick and convenient way. 
Brand
Consumers have the 
reassurance of ordering 
from a well-known, trusted 
brand, receiving customer 
service through JUST EAT 
online support or offline 
through our call centres. 
Brand association helps 
restaurants to drive scale in 
orders by enabling efficient 
entry to the online market.
Scalability
When creating, developing 
and maintaining our 
technology, we recognise 
the importance of scalability. 
We invest heavily to ensure 
our platforms and apps are 
robust, flexible and secure 
enough to meet increasing 
peaks of demand from 
consumers and restaurants.  3 www.just-eat.com
Strategic
Report
Corporate 
Governance
Financial
Statements
Simple, Success-Based Revenue Model
13%
Payment card/admin fees revenue
This is a small fee typically charged when consumers 
choose to pay online.
5%
Connection fees revenue
Restaurants pay a one-off fee to join the JUST EAT 
network. The pricing varies, depending on market 
maturity and thereafter any compulsory fees are 
success-based
1
.
6%
T op-placement fee and other revenue
Restaurants can choose to pay for additional services 
such as promotional top-placement on the JUST EAT 
platform and can purchase low-cost branded 
commodity products.
76%
Commission
Commission is charged to restaurants on the value  
of successful orders placed by consumers. The rate 
charged varies by country, averaging 11.4% across  
the Group.
1 With the exception of Denmark and France, where restaurants pay a 
small annual subscription fee in addition to commission and admin fees.
See page 14
