 6 JUST EAT plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic
Report
Corporate 
Governance
Financial
Statements
Chairman’s Statement
A year of excellent progress
We aim to deliver predictable and transparent financial 
performance. JUST EAT’s significant operational leverage saw 
margins expand as revenues grew, more than offsetting our 
substantial ongoing investments in group infrastructure, technology 
and markets. Furthermore, the business has an attractive cash 
profile, with a very favourable working capital cycle.
As well as sharply higher order volumes in 2014, which increased 
52% year-on-year, we have seen a continuing shift to mobile. 
Through our mobile-led strategy, this channel now provides over 
60% of orders for the UK. We also enhanced our relationship 
with our restaurant partners, who are embracing the improved 
tools we offer them.
2014 was a landmark year, with our IPO in April being an 
important milestone and we were delighted to attract such a 
high-quality shareholder base. We believe that the investment 
community is increasingly recognising the value of JUST EAT,  
as we continue to deliver on our commitments. Our business 
model delivers value to consumers and restaurants, which in  
turn creates value for shareholders.
The IPO has given us the financial strength to develop through 
acquisition if opportunities to buy leading positions in markets of 
scale present themselves. In the short-term, our strategy is to 
continue to build our business by extending our leadership in 
existing markets and to focus on technology and innovation.
Strong governance
Governance is at the heart of the way the Board operates and 
central to the way the Company behaves. Although at the time  
of the IPO the Board did not fully comply with the requirements 
of the Corporate Governance Code, as the financial sponsor 
shareholders sell down, we are committed to developing a Board 
that fully complies. By the end of the 2014 financial year we had 
already ensured that all committees of the Board were and 
remained fully Code compliant.
This year we have recruited three extremely experienced 
independent Non-Executive Directors, and I welcome Gwyn Burr, 
Andrew Griffith and Henri Moissinac to the Board. Their 
backgrounds in major consumer, food and mobile technology 
businesses are already proving immensely valuable, and their 
subject matter expertise highly complements our plans for 
the Company.
Laurel Bowden stepped down from the Board on 1 October 2014 
and I would like to extend my thanks for her invaluable 
contribution since becoming a Director in 2011. 
This has been another excellent year 
for JUST EAT, with revenue up 62% to 
£157.0 million and Underlying EBITDA up 
131% to £32.6 million, demonstrating 
the scale of the market opportunity and 
our ability to drive top and bottom line 
growth by meeting the needs of 
consumers and restaurants.   7 www.just-eat.com
Strategic
Report
Corporate 
Governance
Financial
Statements
An outstanding team
JUST EAT has built a senior management team with tremendous 
depth and understanding of both our business and the market  
in which we operate. Our ambitions mean we will continue to 
strengthen our leadership, bringing in the capabilities we need  
to take full advantage of the opportunities presented to us.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank everyone at 
JUST EAT for their commitment and contribution to our success 
this year.
Looking ahead
JUST EAT has an extensive opportunity to grow over the 
coming years. We are determined to grasp that opportunity 
and to maximise the benefits for our consumers, restaurants, 
employees and shareholders. 
Our prospects are underpinned by our leadership positions, 
a takeaway food market growing faster than global GDP, and 
above all, the sizeable potential for channel shifting orders from 
phone to online, which is still in its early stages.
Over time, our opportunity to continue to build the global leader 
in this space is clear. The strength of our brand and technology 
and our ability to innovate will also open up adjacent markets for 
us, such as collection, giving us access to new sources of 
growth, revenues and profits.
John Hughes, CBE
Chairman
We are fully committed to 
Corporate Governance and 
have added to our already 
outstanding team during 
the year:
Andrew Griffith
Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director
(Chairman of the Audit Committee)
Gwyn Burr 
Non-Executive Director
(Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee) 
Henri Moissinac
Independent Non-Executive Director
See page 45 
