 K3 Business Technology Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2013
2
At a Glance
What does K3 do?
K3	is	one	of	the	UK ’ s	leading	pr o viders	of	in t eg r a t ed	business	solutions	t o	
the supply chain sector. Our customers are Retailers, Manufacturers and 
Distr ibut ors	who	ar e	look ing	f or	global ,	br and	leading	business	solutions	
fr om	a	specialist	pr o vider	who	is	dedica t ed	t o	their	mar ket	sec t or .
W e	suppor t	o v er	3,000	cust omers	fr om	fiv e	r eg ional	
c en tr es	in	the	UK ,	with	our	in t er na tional	oper a tions	
headquar t er ed	in	Holland .
I ncr easingly	our	cust omers	ar e	c onsider ing	Cloud	
C omputing ,	t o	defr a y	IT	c osts	and	t o	pr o vide	a	mor e	
flexible	and	secur e	IT	infr astruc tur e	tha t	will	deliv er	
them a competitive edge.
W e	take	mar ket	leading	solutions	fr om	M icr osof t,	
Sage	and	SY SPRO	and	add	our	o wn	I n t ellec tual	
P r oper t y	(“IP ”)	t o	cr ea t e	industr y	specific	solutions .
B y	ha ving	our	o wn	IP ,	w e	can	tailor	these	solutions	
t o	our	c or e	mar kets	and	our	solutions	ar e	thus	mor e	
competitive, creating more loyal customers, whilst at 
the same time driving up margins.
We have loyal customers and once installed, our 
software systems can remain in place for 15 years 
or longer. This ensures that K3 generates very high 
levels of recurring income. 
K3	has	a	str ong	and	suc c essful	tr ack	r ec or d	of	
growth. We have steadily grown organically and 
through acquisition over the last 10 years and will 
continue with this dual growth strategy.
 Over 3,000 customers
 10	suppor t	centres across
 the UK	and	E ur ope
 c600 staff
 Microsoft Inner	C ir cle
 Microsoft P r esiden t ’ s	Club
 In v est ors	in People
	 ISO	27001
Andy Makeham 
Chief	Ex ecutiv e	O ffic er K3 Business Technology Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2013
3
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other
Our markets
Retail
K3	en t er ed	the	r etail	mar ket	in	2004	
with	a	key	ac quisition.	 T his	business	
unit	has	g r o wn	sig nifican tly	sinc e	
then. Our customers tend to be 
w ell	k no wn	 ‘ high	str eet ’ 	r etailers	
which select K3 because of our 
sec t or	k no wledge ,	tr ack	r ec or d	and	
inno v a tiv e	solutions .	I n	r ec en t	times ,	
high street retailers have been under 
pressure but K3 has continued to 
benefit	fr om	a	str a t eg ic	in v estmen t	
in multi-channel retail (including 
internet, store and mail order), and 
continues to win major new contracts 
y ear	on	y ear .	I n	2012/13	K3	has	
invested heavily in its new Gemstone 
offering which will provide a Retail 
and Wholesale solution for Microsoft 
D ynamics	A X.
Manufacturing
With over 1,000 manufacturing 
customers, K3 is the largest provider 
of integrated business solutions 
to the manufacturing sector. We 
off er	solutions	f or	both	 ‘ discr et e ’ 	
and	 ‘ pr oc ess ’ 	manufac tur ers ,	and	
our customers range from global 
multi-nationals running K3 solutions 
worldwide to small engineering 
companies.
Distribution
Distr ibution	is	the	most	r ec en t	
area of K3’s expansion, with several 
acquisitions creating a dedicated 
business unit of size and scale. Whilst 
there is considerable overlap with our 
retail and manufacturing customers, 
we now have some 700 dedicated 
distribution customers relying on K3 
f or	their	IT	ser vic es	and	suppor t.
International
Our 	 I n ter na tional 	 Opera tions	
Division 	 based 	 in 	 The 	 Hague	
has become a major contributor 
to K3’s performance in recent 
years. From here we support our 
international retail and distribution 
customers, with some major global 
cor pora te 	 customers 	 such 	 as 	 I n ter	
IKEA 	 Systems 	 B.V ., 	 the 	 owner 	 and	
franchisor 	 of 	 the 	 IKEA 	 concept. 	 Our	
Pebblestone fashion distribution 
solution is managed from here, 
suppor ting 	 a 	 net wor k 	 of 	 24	
distributors in 27 countries.
Hosting and 
Managed Services
F r om 	 da ta 	 c en tr es 	 in 	 E dinbur gh,	
L ondon, 	 New 	 Y or k 	 and 	 T or on t o	
we support a global hosting and 
managed service business that 
looks 	 af t er 	 the 	 IT 	 infr astruc tur es 	 f or	
K3 customers around the globe, 
both on-premise and hosted. Cloud 
Computing is fast growing sector for 
industry as a whole and this is also 
one of K3’s fastest growing  
business units.
Dedicated teams for dedicated markets
K3
E ur ope
K3	 suppor ts	 64	 distr ibut ors	 
and over 3,000 customers in 
mor e	than	42	c oun tr ies
K3 Distributors
K3 Development Centres
K3 Hosting Centres
K3 Offices
