 K3 Business Technology Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014
4
At a Glance
What does K3 do?
K3 is one of the UK’s leading providers of integrated business solutions to 
the supply chain sector. Our customers are Retailers, Manufacturers and 
Distributors who are looking for global, brand leading business solutions 
from a specialist provider who is dedicated to their market sector.
We support over 3,000 customers from five regional 
centres in the UK, with our international operations 
headquartered in Holland.
Increasingly our customers are considering Cloud 
Computing, to defray IT costs and to provide a more 
flexible and secure IT infrastructure that will deliver 
them a competitive edge.
We take market leading solutions from Microsoft, 
Sage and SYSPRO and add our own Intellectual 
Property (“IP”) to create industry specific solutions.
By having our own IP , we can tailor these solutions 
to our core markets and our solutions are thus more 
competitive, creating more loyal customers, whilst at 
the same time driving up margins.
We have loyal customers and once installed, our 
software systems can remain in place for 15 years 
or longer. This ensures that K3 generates very high 
levels of recurring income. 
K3 has a strong and successful track record of 
growth. We have steadily grown organically and 
through acquisition over the last 10 years and will 
continue with this dual growth strategy.
 Over 3,100 customers
 10 support centres across
 the UK and Europe
 c680 staff
 Microsoft Inner Circle
 Microsoft President’s Club
 Investors in People
 Sage X3 partner of the year
David Bolton 
Chief Executive Officer
Reseller Channel K3 Business Technology Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014
5
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other
Our markets
Retail
K3 entered the retail market in 2004 
with a key acquisition. This business 
unit has grown significantly since 
then. Our customers tend to be 
well known ‘high street’ retailers 
which select K3 because of our 
sector knowledge, track record and 
innovative solutions. In recent times, 
high street retailers have been under 
pressure but K3 has continued to 
benefit from a strategic investment 
in multi-channel retail (including 
internet, store and mail order), and 
continues to win major new contracts 
year on year. Over the last two years, 
K3 has invested heavily in its new ax|is 
offering which will provide a Retail 
and Wholesale solution for Microsoft 
Dynamics AX. The ax|is solution is 
being marketed worldwide through 
global distributors.
Manufacturing
With over 1,000 manufacturing 
customers, K3 is the largest provider 
of integrated business solutions to 
the manufacturing sector. We offer 
solutions for both ‘discrete’ and 
‘process’ manufacturers, and our 
customers range from global multi-
nationals running K3 solutions.
Distribution
Distribution is the most recent 
area of K3’s expansion, with several 
acquisitions creating a dedicated 
business unit of size and scale. Whilst 
there is considerable overlap with our 
retail and manufacturing customers, 
we now have some 700 dedicated 
distribution customers relying on K3 
for their IT services and support.
International
Our International Operations 
Division based in The Hague 
has become a major contributor 
to K3s performance in recent 
years. From here we support our 
international retail and distribution 
customers, with some major global 
corporate customers such as Inter 
IKEA Systems B.V., the owner and 
franchisor of the IKEA concept. Our 
Pebblestone fashion distribution 
solution is managed from here, 
supporting a network of 24 
distributors in 27 countries.
Hosting and 
Managed Services
From data centres in Edinburgh, 
London, New York and Toronto 
we support a global hosting and 
managed service business that 
looks after the IT infrastructures for 
K3 customers around the globe, 
both on-premise and hosted. Cloud 
Computing is a fast growing sector 
for industry as a whole and this is 
also one of K3’s fastest growing 
business units.
Dedicated teams for dedicated markets
K3
Europe
K3 supports 64 distributors  
and over 3,000 customers in 
more than 30 countries
K3 Distributors
K3 Development Centres
K3 Hosting Centres
K3 Offices
