 4 Kazakhmys PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Job:	 6828	Kazakhmys_AR05_FRONT.indd	 Proof:	 10
Operator:	Dave	 Date:	 31/03/06
Server:	 Studio	l	 Set-up:	 Tracy
Mr Cha has served on the board of directors of Kazakhmys LLC 
since 2000. He answers some of the most frequently asked 
questions since being appointed Chief Executive.
Q&A with the Chief Executive
Yong Keu Cha
Chief Executive
 . What, for you, were the highlights  
of 2005?
I can think of a few highlights that stand out.
Our year-on-year financial performance 
has improved, albeit supported by higher 
copper prices. Revenues are up by 106.2% 
and EBITDA excluding special items is 
35.6% higher than in 2004. Furthermore, 
although we faced operating challenges 
at the beginning of 2005, notably the 
slope failure at the nikolaevskoe mine, we 
managed to sustain our production levels 
returning to full operating capacity by 
June 2005. 
We succeeded in expanding our 
production asset base, completing the 
Artemyevskoe mine project. We have also 
made good progress on several other 
projects and expansions at some of the 
existing mines and will continue to work on 
these as well as developing new projects. 
Key to our operations, our neighbour 
China, the principal destination for our 
copper products, continued to be one  
of the fastest growing economies in  
the world.
But most importantly, 2005 was a 
milestone in the history of the Group. We 
successfully launched our shares on the 
London Stock Exchange and entered the 
FTSE 100 Index at the first opportunity; our 
share price increased substantially, which 
is good news for us and our investors. 5 Kazakhmys PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
2. Can you elaborate on the effects of 
the recent UK listing on the Group’s 
operations? 
Prior to our Listing, Kazakhmys had limited 
financial flexibility and low investor visibility 
and access to international capital markets 
– all key components that are required for 
a company to compete successfully for 
significant investment opportunities. 
Aware of these constraints, our 
management team took the opportunity to 
take Kazakhmys public and list its shares 
on the London Stock Exchange, thus 
building a platform from which shareholder 
value could be created and growth could 
be pursued, at the same time as unlocking 
the Group’s existing potential.
Becoming a UK listed company has 
brought us a number of responsibilities: 
more transparency and detailed 
disclosure, increased accountability to 
shareholders and compliance with all 
relevant regulations in the market. On 
the operational side, we have introduced 
significant changes to our internal 
management information system and 
data analysis. We are introducing a more 
rigorous approach to budgeting, new 
project approval and capital expenditure. 
All key elements of Group strategy are 
approved by the Board, which includes 
several independent Directors with 
significant sector experience.
Alongside these responsibilities, we have 
recognised substantial benefits. We have 
access to much cheaper funding. With our 
current capitalisation and a much stronger 
balance sheet with virtually no debt, we 
are well positioned to consider investment 
opportunities throughout the world. 
However, for the time being, we remain 
firmly focused on the surrounding region. 
We also remain focused on copper with the 
potential to diversify into other base metals 
should we see an attractive opportunity.
3. how do you respond to those, 
particularly in the press, who say 
that Kazakhmys does not conform 
to the UK standards of corporate 
governance? 
The Board believes that effective 
governance structures and procedures are 
essential to the long-term sustainability 
of its business. As a result, in the 
period leading up to Listing, the Board 
implemented a number of changes to the 
corporate governance of the Company. 
These changes were designed to give 
confidence to shareholders that it would 
aspire to be well managed in a manner 
comparable to other international mining 
companies listed on the London Stock 
Exchange whilst taking into account the 
unique circumstances behind the growth 
and development of the Group. 
4. how are the new projects 
progressing? 
We are very pleased with the progress we 
have achieved on our new projects. We 
completed Artemyevskoe, an underground 
mine project, well ahead of schedule and 
within budget. The mine has an expected 
mine life of 22 years. 
We have also made good progress towards 
the completion of the Zhaman-Aybat mine. 
The shaft systems are commissioned and 
the underground development is almost 
complete. We anticipate initial production 
to start later this year. Zhaman-Aybat 
has reserves of 75.3 M
T
 of ore containing 
1,069 kt of copper.
At our largest future project, Aktogay, 
we are continuing with site studies 
and preliminary works but the final 
development decision still has to be made. 
Aktogay is an open pit mine with reserves 
of 1,614 M
T
 of ore at an average grade of 
0.36% of copper containing 5,810 kt of 
copper. 
5. Do you have any acquisition plans 
for the immediate future? 
Kazakhstan is a very rich country with a 
wealth of natural resources and a rapidly 
developing economy. These factors make 
the projects in Kazakhstan attractive 
for both local and foreign investors. We 
are constantly reviewing investment 
opportunities in the region and believe 
that there are several opportunities that 
will allow us to deliver on our strategic 
objective of opportunistic acquisitions 
in the area. However, I cannot be more 
specific at this stage.
 . What are your views on 
Kazakhstan’s economy?
Kazakhstan’s economy is one of the most 
dynamic developing economies in the 
region. The country has enjoyed over 9% 
annual GDP growth rate for the last several 
years and foreign direct investment in 
2005 stood at over $40 billion. The country 
possesses a wealth of impressive natural 
resources, which makes it an attractive 
investment destination.
Recently, Mr nazarbayev was re-elected 
as President of Kazakhstan for another 
seven-year term and this will continue to 
provide a stable political environment. 
Mr nazarbayev is a strong advocate of 
liberalising the economy and attracting 
foreign investment. 
7. What is your view on the outlook  
for the copper market? 
In recent years, growth in demand has 
resulted in steadily increasing copper 
prices. There is a generally accepted view 
in the market that in the short-term, copper 
prices should remain above the long-term 
historic average. nonetheless, there are 
several projects being implemented in 
response to higher copper prices but it 
should take some time before they can 
impact the markets. 
A major factor in performance of the 
copper market has been demand from 
China. Refined copper consumption in 
2005, one of the factors most important 
to us, grew by 7% compared to 2004. 
China consumed 23% of global copper 
supply in 2005 and last year the country’s 
GDP growth rate was an impressive 9.9%. 
However, there are differing views as to 
how much longer China can continue its 
impressive economic growth. There has 
been a lot of speculation on a hard landing 
for the Chinese economy but there has 
been little evidence of it so far.  
