 [vISUAL OnLy]
4 Kazakhmys PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Job:	 6828	Kazakhmys_AR05_FRONT.indd	 Proof:	 10
Operator:	Dave	 Date:	 31/03/06
Server:	 Studio	l	 Set-up:	 Tracy
Chairman’s Statement
Vladimir Kim
Executive Chairman
There is no doubt that 2005 will always be a landmark 
year in the history of Kazakhmys.
I am delighted to present Kazakhmys PLC’s 
first set of financial results for the year 
ended 31 December 2005. There is no 
doubt that 2005 will always be a landmark 
year in the history of Kazakhmys. We 
started the year as a long-life, low-cost 
mining company based in Kazakhstan, 
little known outside of the country. By the 
year end, we had successfully launched 
our shares on the London Stock Exchange, 
raising $491.2 million in net proceeds and, 
within three months of Listing and at the 
first opportunity for inclusion, we entered 
the FTSE 100 Index - becoming the first CIS 
business to do so. 
As a result of our successful Listing, 
Kazakhmys is now well placed to pursue 
its long-term goals. Our strong share price 
performance illustrates the appetite from 
institutional investors for Kazakhmys as  
the price rose from £5.40 by 43% to reach 
£7.74 at the end of December 2005.
We believe that the success of our Listing 
also reflects the fundamental attraction 
of our business and Kazakhstan, with its 
current political stability, growing economy 
and exceptionally rich natural resources.  
Less than six months have passed between 
our Listing and the production of our first 
set of financial results as a listed company. 
In this period, a great deal has already 
been achieved. We retained our business 
focus throughout the Listing process and 
in 2005 we have seen production figures 
at levels comparable with previous years, 
which, when combined with high copper 
and other metal prices, resulted in strong 
financial results. In 2005, the Group’s 
revenues for the year rose to $2,597.5 
million, a 106.2% increase on 2004. 
One of our key measures for comparing 
underlying trading performance between 
years, EBITDA excluding special items, 
increased by 35.6% to $1,073.5 million. 
On the back of these results, the Board 
has proposed an inaugural final dividend  5 Kazakhmys PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
equivalent to 36.0 US cents per share in 
respect of full year earnings in line with our 
guidance at the time of the IPO. 
Our strategic objective for the future is to 
maintain and strengthen our position as 
a leading copper producer and achieve a 
world class reputation. We will combine our 
strong focus on copper with diversification 
into other commodities within our region 
whilst continuing to maximise operational 
efficiencies and deliver organic growth. 
With virtually no debt and strong cash 
flows from our operations, we are well 
placed to make acquisitions where we  
find value-adding opportunities.
On 14 March 2006 we announced that the 
independent members of the Board of 
Kazakhmys PLC had granted permission 
to me (in a personal capacity) to acquire 
a 25% interest in EnRC Kazakhstan 
Holding B.v. (‘EKH’), the holding company 
for certain assets of the Eurasia natural 
Resources group’s metals and mining 
business, which primarily operates in 
Kazakhstan, on the basis that the Company 
is given the benefit of a call option in 
respect of my shareholding in EKH. Any 
decision to exercise the call option would 
be taken by an independent committee of 
the Board. While I pledged certain shares  
to facilitate this transaction, I remain a  
fully committed long-term shareholder  
of Kazakhmys PLC.
I continue to remain bound by all of the 
terms of my employment contract with 
Kazakhmys PLC and, in particular, the 
obligations in that contract not to compete, 
directly or indirectly, with Kazakhmys PLC.
As a newly-floated company on the London 
Stock Exchange, my Board colleagues and 
I are firmly committed to delivering high 
standards of corporate governance. We 
believe that the combination of strong 
management and independent Directors 
will play a decisive role in the strategic 
development of the Group. The quality and 
industry knowledge of our Board members 
will strengthen and complement the skills 
and experience of our management team.
Our employees are a fundamental part of 
the business and we remain committed 
to improving the safety environment 
across our asset portfolio. The Group has 
established a Health, Safety & Environment 
(‘HSE’) Committee chaired by David Munro, 
an independent non-executive Director,  
to monitor the Group’s progress in raising 
HSE standards and performance. We  
are also delivering on our commitment  
to the broader community within which  
we operate.
Looking ahead, supply and demand 
fundamentals suggest continued copper 
price strength throughout 2006. We 
anticipate that the lower production levels 
in the first two months of 2006 will not be 
representative of the expected copper 
cathode production for the whole of  
2006. We anticipate that 2006 production 
of copper cathode will be moderately 
higher than 2005, driven by a higher level  
of production from own concentrate.  
We will continue to maintain our tight  
focus on cost control and seek further 
growth opportunities.  
I would also like to take this opportunity 
to thank all our employees, management 
team and advisers, who contributed 
to Kazakhmys’ success in 2005. Their 
dedication and commitment are crucial 
in delivering these results and creating 
further shareholder value in the future.
vladimir Kim
Executive Chairman
29 March 2006
Employees of the Group
