 12 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ Report: Business Review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
SUMMARY FINANCIALS FOR 2009
The ﬁnancial results for 2009 were dominated
by the lower price of copper. Group revenue
from continuing operations was $2,404 million,
a reduction of 27% from the previous year
and Group EBITDA (excluding special items)
declined 21% to $1,634 million.
The average market price over the year was
$5,164 per tonne, compared to $6,952 per
tonne in the previous year. Our average
realised price, of $5,024 per tonne, was lower
than the average market price, because our
production and sales were weighted to the
ﬁrst six months of the year.
Revenue in the Copper Division was
$2,357 million, compared to $3,227 million
in 2008, the reduction mainly being due to
the lower copper price. EBITDA (excluding
special items) in the Copper Division fell 36%
to $1,027 million, as the decline in the copper
price and sales volumes were only partially
offset by a reduction in costs.
Revenue in the Power Division was $238 million.
Sales at Ekibastuz GRES-1, on an annualised
basis, were in line with the previous year.
The increase in power tariffs matched the
slight decline in power generated and the
negative impact of the tenge devaluation.
At the start of 2009, we hedged 8.5 kt of
copper sales per month for the year, around
one third of our total output. The programme
was put in place to protect some of our
higher cost operations, and in particular
to protect employment, in the event of
prolonged weakness in the copper price.
The programme offset the negative impact
of copper prices falling below $3,000 per
tonne at the cost of sacrificing the upside
when the price rose above $4,000 per tonne.
Given the subsequent rise in the price of
copper, a loss was incurred of $129 million.
No similar transactions are in place for 2010
or beyond, as it remains our general policy
to be an unhedged copper producer.
Costs in the Copper Division fell sharply
in 2009. Costs were assisted by a sharp
devaluation of the tenge to 150 KZT/$
in February 2009, lower input prices and
targeted action to improve efﬁciency.
By-product credits beneﬁted from rising
prices over the course of the year. These
changes led to a decline in net costs from
116 US cents per pound in 2008 to 72 US
cents per pound in 2009. This achievement
was signiﬁcantly ahead of our net cash cost
target at the start of 2009, of between
90 and 120 US cents per pound.
In 2008 the Government of Kazakhstan
implemented new legislation to change tax
rates from 1 January 2009. The phasing in of
these new rates has since been slowed down,
which is covered further in the Financial Review.
The new tax regime is relatively aggressive
at lower metals prices, such as those seen
in 2009. There have also been some further
OLEG NOVACHUK
Chief Executive
TRANSLATING ACTION
INTO RESULTS ACROSS
ALL OPERATIONS
adverse tax impacts in the year, which have
reduced EPS on Underlying Proﬁt to $1.13 per
share, compared to $2.27 per share in 2008.
The presentation of our reported ﬁnancial
numbers has changed signiﬁcantly this year,
which is dealt with more fully on page 36.
Following the Board’s decision to dispose
of MKM, it is now classiﬁed as an asset held
for sale and its results are included under
discontinued operations. Following the sale
of 50% of Ekibastuz GRES-1 in February 2010,
it will in future be treated as a joint venture.
Under IFRS requirements, for 2009, this
business is also classiﬁed as an asset held
for sale and is included within discontinued
operations. Ekibastuz GRES-1 remains an
important part of our Group.
COPPER DIVISION OUTPUT FOR 2009
At the start of 2009, with low copper prices
and concerns over the economic outlook,
we focused on controlling costs, protecting
margins and maximising cashﬂow generation.
Four high cost mines were suspended, which
led to a 9% decline in ore output to 32,409 kt.
Lower ore output combined with a reduction
in grade, from 1.26% to 1.18%, created a
15% decrease in mined metal output.
The reduction in mined metal, however,
was offset by pro-active, targeted actions
such that the production of copper in own
concentrate reduced by just 3% to 359 kt.
These actions included improved productivity
at continuing operations, the processing of
stockpiled ore, the reprocessing of waste
materials and higher recovery rates at
the concentrators.
Production of copper cathode equivalent,
our ﬁnished material, declined by 7% to 320 kt.
This ﬁgure was ahead of the target of 300 kt,
based on planned mine output, which we
set at the beginning of 2009. The target was
exceeded due to the management actions
referred to previously. Sales of cathode
equivalent were 341 kt, with additional
volume coming from a reduction in inventory
in the ﬁrst half of the year. There was some
rebuild of work in progress and inventory
at the year end, which had been reduced
to low levels during the year.
BY-PRODUCT OUTPUT FOR 2009
From our copper mines, we also produce
by-products of zinc, silver and gold. By-product
output in 2009 exceeded 2008, as the
reduction in by-product metals mined during
the year was offset by signiﬁcant contributions
from the processing of stockpiled polymetallic
ores, higher recovery rates at the concentrators
and lower levels of work in progress. www.kazakhmys.com 13
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE STRATEGIC REVIEW OVERVIEW
POWER DIVISION OUTPUT FOR 2009
Annual net power generated at Ekibastuz
GRES-1 in 2009 fell 6.4% from 2008, but the
recovery through the year was dramatic. The
demand for electricity declined signiﬁcantly
at the end of 2008 and remained low at the
beginning of 2009. A moderate improvement
in demand started in April 2009 and the trend
strengthened during the rest of the year, led
by rising industrial output in Kazakhstan and
Russia and some shutdowns at other generators.
There is a tight supply demand balance for
power in Kazakhstan and the sector needs
investment to meet growing future demand
for electricity. The Government, recognising
this need, increased the ceiling tariffs for the
years 2009 to 2015, in order to raise cash
ﬂows and allow greater investment in the
sector. The tariff at Ekibastuz GRES-1 was an
average of 3.19 KZT/kWh in 2009, compared
to 2.42 KZT/kWh in 2008. Domestic tariffs
ﬁnished the year in line with the ceiling
tariff of 3.60 KZT/kWh.
KAZAKHMYS GOLD OUTPUT FOR 2009
AND OUTLOOK
As anticipated, there was a decrease in ore
extraction and metal production in the Gold
Division during 2009. Zhaima mine closed in
September 2008, and the grade was lower at
the continuing operations of Mizek and Mukur.
The new Bozymchak gold/copper project
in Kyrgyzstan has moved to full development
stage, following the allocation of $100 million
funding by the China Development Bank
and Samruk.
Bozymchak should move into production by
the end of 2010 and has a potential annual
output of 30 koz of gold and 7 kt of copper.
Subject to completing various technicalities, it
is likely that the assets within the Gold Division
will be absorbed within the Copper Division.
KAZAKHMYS PETROLEUM
Kazakhmys Petroleum has continued its drilling
and testing programme at the Eastern Akzhar
exploration block in western Kazakhstan.
Remedial work is being carried out at the ﬁrst
two deep wells in order to continue testing,
which encountered some technical difﬁculties
during 2009. The drilling of a third deep well
is planned to be completed in the ﬁrst half
of 2010.
The results of 3D seismic data covering the
northwestern part of the licensed area will
be available in early 2010 and it is expected
that these results will be used to identify
prospective locations for future deep well
drilling. By the end of 2010, sufﬁcient data
should have been collected from the wells
to give a fuller economic evaluation of the ﬁeld.
IMPROVING
EFFICIENCY,
INCREASING
PRODUCTIVITY
As part of our optimisation programme,
we have reorganised our smelters to
encourage cost control and improve
recovery rates. Zhezkazgan and
Balkhash smelters now work under
a single specialist metallurgical unit.
These changes have streamlined the
process of moving material from
concentrators to smelters. There has
also been a complete rebuilding of one
of the furnaces at Zhezkazgan and this
will now be commissioned and the
second furnace will undergo a similar
refurbishment. These initiatives will
save costs and improve quality.
OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION 14 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ Report: Business Review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
ENRC
Our 26% holding in ENRC PLC was worth
$4,879 million at the end of 2009, compared
to $1,600 million at the start of the year.
The increase in value reﬂects the recovery
in commodity markets. ENRC is principally
involved in ferrochrome, iron ore and
alumina. During the year, ENRC made
further investments outside Central Asia
including the purchase of Central African
Mining and Exploration Company PLC, who
have assets in Central and Southern Africa.
These acquisitions potentially give ENRC
greater exposure to base metals.
FUNDING
Over the course of the year we generated cash
from operations including dividends received
from ENRC PLC, before taxation and capital
expenditure, of $1,084 million. In March 2009,
we commenced capital repayments on our
principal $2.1 billion ﬁve year debt facility,
at the rate of $44 million per month.
At the end of 2009, $1,662 million was
outstanding on this facility and, after cash
and cash equivalents, there was net debt of
$689 million relating to continuing operations.
Interest on our principal facility is 1.25% over
US$ LIBOR. In 2009, a portion of the interest
payments were ﬁxed via interest rate swaps
to reduce volatility in our cash ﬂows.
At the end of 2009, the Group was allocated
up to $2.7 billion from a loan arranged between
the China Development Bank and Samruk.
The ﬁrst utilisation under the facility was
OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION
INVESTING
FOR GROWTH
Over the past three years Kazakhmys
has invested around $250 million in new
capital mining equipment. Around 50%
of the ﬂeet is under three years old. This
extensive investment programme has had
an impact on output over the past year as
new equipment has removed bottlenecks
and raised efﬁciencies. With so much
investment in new equipment, work is
taking place to improve maintenance
scheduling, both to increase availability
and ensure a longer life.
drawn on 17 March 2010 for $300 million.
Interest is payable on funds drawn at a rate
of 4.80% over US$ LIBOR. This facility has
several attractions, being long term, flexible
in drawing and at a competitive rate.
OUTLOOK FOR COPPER DIVISION IN 2010
Mined ore output should rise slightly in 2010,
but this will be offset by a general decline in
grades. Given that mined metal output will be
at a similar level to 2009, we are setting the
same target for output of just over 300 kt of
copper cathode equivalent. There is some
stockpiled material, but not at the scale
of 2009.
The four suspended mines will not be
brought back into production in 2010.
The most significant of these is Akbastau,
where we are intending to build a
concentrator close to the mine, in order to
reduce transportation costs and maximise the
value of the ore reserve. With funding now
available from our new facility, we are now
carrying out preliminary economic studies.
Gross cash costs are likely to increase
next year given rising input costs and lower
grades. Inﬂation in Kazakhstan is currently just
under 10%, which will put some pressure on
domestic costs. The Kazakhstan tenge trades
in a ﬁxed band around the US dollar, which
has recently been widened and could allow
the currency to strengthen against the US
dollar, again putting pressure on costs.
There is unlikely to be further signiﬁcant
production of by-products from stockpiled
material, so that the by-product credit will
depend on mined metal and pricing.
COPPER GROWTH PROJECTS
The Group has two major copper growth
projects, Aktogay and Bozshakol. These
have both successfully completed their
pre-feasibility stage. Both projects showed
economic value on conservative pricing
assumptions, with signiﬁcant net present
value at Bozshakol.
As mentioned last year, we delayed the move
to feasibility stage until we had identified
partners and external sources of funding for
the projects. With the loan from the China
Development Bank and Samruk, we now have
committed funding for Bozshakol and the
feasibility study commenced in January 2010.
The study contractor is Aker Solutions. The
feasibility study should be completed by
the end of 2010, allowing the project to
move into development in 2011 with first
production of copper in concentrate by early
2014. Some items of large equipment are
likely to be ordered towards the end of
2010. The total capital investment will be
around $1.5 to $2 billion, but the feasibility
study will deﬁne this ﬁgure more accurately.
The funding facility from the China
Development Bank and Samruk will allow
the consideration and potential development
of other projects including the underground
mine at Kosmurun, the new concentrator at www.kazakhmys.com 15
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE STRATEGIC REVIEW OVERVIEW
Akbastau, the expansion of Zhomart and the
development of the underground mine
at Abyz.
We continue to look at funding alternatives
for Aktogay and anticipate that progress will
be achieved during the current ﬁnancial year.
At that point, the project will then move to
feasibility study.
All of these future copper projects potentially
represent over two-thirds of our current
production. We are, therefore, in a position
not only to replace the decline in our current
production, but to signiﬁcantly increase
output in the medium term.
KAZAKHMYS POWER OUTLOOK
FOR 2010 AND FUTURE EXPANSION
With the overhaul of Unit 5 in 2009, the plant
now has a capacity of 2,470 MW. During 2010,
Unit 3 will undergo a major overhaul and we
will start the complete rehabilitation of Unit 8.
Ekibastuz GRES-1 will see a signiﬁcant change
in capacity when Unit 8 is completed in 2013.
If demand continues to be strong, then the
refurbishment of one of the other two
dormant units may be brought forward.
As mentioned above, tariffs averaged
3.19 KZT/kWh, including Russian sales, which
were at a lower price than sales in Kazakhstan.
The ceiling for domestic sales in 2010 is
4.68 KZT/kWh and it is anticipated that the
OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION
REALISING OUR
GROWTH POTENTIAL
In 2009 the Group arranged a
debt facility of $2.7 billion, which
will be used to develop our signiﬁcant
growth projects. This is a ﬁfteen year
debt facility, which is ideally structured
for the development of long-life mining
assets. The assets we will be focusing on
include the major copper growth project
at Bozshakol and the copper gold
project at Bozymchak.
The facility will also be used for a range
of mid-sized copper developments and
new processing plants. Together these
projects will add substantial additional
production and, given their location and
the existing infrastructure, they are some
of the lowest-risk copper developments
in progress in the world.
$2.7billion
to develop signiﬁcant growth projects
price will reach that level over the course
of the year for domestic sales, though some
power will still be exported at a lower price.
CONCLUSION
In 2010, the cost environment is expected
to be more challenging than in 2009 and we
will need to maintain output while controlling
costs. The receipt of the loan facility from
Samruk and the China Development Bank
has transformed our ability to pursue our
growth projects and we are now in an
excellent position to take forward some
of the largest and lowest-risk copper
projects that are currently available globally.  OPTIMISING PERFORMANCE
THROUGH INVESTMENT OF ASSETS
Caterpillar trucks move blasted rock from the mine
face at Zhezkazgan. In 2009 we ordered a total of 42
Caterpillar trucks, as part of our investment programme.
Directors’ Report: Business Review
PERFORMANCE
18 Measuring our Progress through KPIs
20 Market and Operations Review
32 Risk Management
33 Risk Factors
36 Financial Review
