 8 KBC Advanced Technologies plc Annual Report 2011
BUSINESS REVIEW
Chief Executive’s review
GEORGE BRIGHT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
“ Industry uncertainty is good for 
KBC. In a low utilisation/low margin 
environment, our clients are able to 
utilise our software and skills in margin 
optimisation and we continue to see 
demand for technical, commercial and 
environmental due diligence studies.”
Highlights
–  Global demand for reﬁned oil products continues to rise, 
mostly fuelled by population growth and increased 
industrialisation in the emerging economies
–  We anticipate further client M&A activity as traditional 
reﬁners reduce their exposure to reﬁning and newer 
players seek market access
–  High energy prices, combined with ever-increasing 
environmental restrictions, generate high demand for 
our energy optimisation services
–  KBC’s strategy is to position itself as the preferred 
independent provider of consulting and software services 
in the oil and gas sector
–  Our software has grown into the number one reactor 
based modelling system for the worldwide downstream 
energy sector
–  Our plan is to leverage our existing IP in different adjacent 
vertical markets, such as petrochemicals and gas processing
–  We have established an engineering resource centre 
in Mumbai, India
Our market and its impact on KBC
In 2011 the downstream energy sector continued to be our 
primary market. The ﬁve key drivers for this business are:
 – Oil and gas demand growth
 – Pressure on reﬁning margins
 – Oil price volatility
 – Sector M&A activity
 – Availability of qualiﬁed engineering staff
All of these drivers were positive for KBC throughout 2011.  OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
9 KBC Advanced Technologies plc Annual Report 2011
The market for downstream oil and gas processing continues to 
be in a state of ﬂux. The divide between the old and new economies 
remains, with a continuing contraction of capacity in the Atlantic 
basin and expansion of reﬁning and petrochemicals in Asia, 
the Middle East and Latin America, particularly in China, India, 
Saudi Arabia and Brazil.
Global demand for reﬁned oil products continues to rise, mostly 
fuelled by population growth and increased industrialisation in 
the emerging economies. We expect this trend to continue for 
the next few years and demand for our strategic, capital and 
organisational services to remain robust. 
In 2011 we commenced a project in Australia associated with 
production of coal bed methane and transmission to a new LNG 
plant. This work has been focused on non-traditional KBC services 
that enable clients to implement cultural change and organisational 
development.  We anticipate more of this type of work, as well 
as technical consulting, as gas becomes more signiﬁcant in the 
global energy mix.
In contrast, capacity rationalisation in Europe and North America 
continues at an accelerated pace, epitomised by the announcement 
of recent closures at three of Petroplus’s European reﬁneries and 
the Hovensa reﬁnery in the Caribbean. We expect this trend to 
continue for the next few years as the industry continues to shed 
capacity. We also anticipate further M&A activity as traditional 
reﬁners reduce their exposure to reﬁning and newer players seek 
market access. This industry uncertainty is good for KBC. In a low 
utilisation/low margin environment, our clients are able to utilise 
our software and skills in margin optimisation and we continue 
to see demand for technical, commercial and environmental 
due diligence studies. The increased level of M&A activity in the 
industry has also allowed us to expand beyond our traditional 
asset owner client base, and we now regularly handle project 
work for ﬁnancial institutions.
The oil price continues to be high at over US$100 per barrel and 
subject to geopolitical volatility.  We see no reason why this should 
change over the next few years. High energy prices, combined with 
ever-increasing environmental restrictions, generate high demand 
for our energy optimisation services. We anticipate therefore that 
this will continue to be one of our busiest areas.
KBC’s strategy and range of services 
KBC’s strategy is to position itself as the preferred independent 
provider of consulting and software services in the oil and gas sector. 
We have built our worldwide presence through organic development 
and selective acquisitions. We work for a wide range of clients 
(majors, national entities, independents and smaller companies), 
providing impartial and objective advice. 
Our services are determined by anticipating changes in the market 
and then providing our clients with relevant solutions. The breadth 
and scope of our strategic solutions increased in 2011 in response 
to an increase in M&A activities in our markets during the second 
half year.  We expect this trend to continue in 2012 and beyond.
Looking forward, our plan is to leverage our existing IP in different 
adjacent vertical markets, such as petrochemicals and gas processing, 
through a combination of organic growth and acquisitions.
Consulting operations
In 2011 our key objective was the successful execution of the backlog 
built during 2010, particularly the PEMEX Proﬁt Improvement Program.
A key feature of the year was the execution of projects across 
multiple client sites.  The Proﬁt Improvement Program at Mexico’s 
PEMEX, which started in 2010, expanded to include all six reﬁneries, 
and has been the cornerstone of our 2011 consulting revenues.  
Joint stewardship of the project with PEMEX management has 
conﬁrmed identiﬁed efﬁciency opportunities that have met or 
exceeded project commitments. 
PEMEX, Mexico
Proﬁt Improvement Programmes
– Operating in all six reﬁneries
–  Optimising all reﬁneries using KBC’s  
Petro-SIM™ and energy modelling software
–  Identifying and implementing opportunities 
to increase production, proﬁt and reliability
–  Embedding improvements into the 
client operation
–  Identifying opportunities that have met 
or exceeded project commitments
Mexico City 10 KBC Advanced Technologies plc Annual Report 2011
BUSINESS REVIEW
Chief Executive’s review continued
Consulting operations continued
In Asia we were contracted by Reliance Industries Limited (“Reliance”) 
to perform energy management and manufacturing excellence 
projects across all of their major reﬁnery and petrochemical sites. 
At 1.2m barrels per day, Reliance’s reﬁnery complex at Jamnagar 
is the world’s largest and includes some of the largest aromatics 
and polypropylene plants. Reliance has four other integrated 
petrochemical complexes, plus numerous polyester and other 
petrochemical plants, and KBC’s projects are focused on the 
six largest of these sites.
France’ s international oil major, T otal, has engaged KBC to assist with 
its drive to reduce energy consumption. This project is being carried 
out in conjunction with Alexander Proudfoot, a US management 
consulting ﬁrm, which is responsible for the change management 
aspects of the project. T o date we have started work at four of T otal’ s 
nine sites, in France, Germany and the USA. Signiﬁcant improvements 
in energy performance have been achieved through operational 
changes, a better deﬁned energy management system and a clear 
plan for future investments. We expect Total to continue this 
programme through 2012 and into 2013.
Other signiﬁcant projects undertaken include:
 – Organisational project for Santos, Australia
 – Feasibility studies for a new reﬁning/petrochemical complex 
for Petronas, Malaysia
 – Energy efﬁciency study for Bashneft, FSU 
 – Investment study for Gazpromneft, FSU
 – Excellence Partnership with Grupa Lotos, Poland
 – Training Manuals for Irving Oil, Canada
 – Process Safety project for Flint Hills Resources, USA
 – Valero Energy reﬁnery energy studies, USA
 – Training Systems for Delek Reﬁning, USA
In order to improve our bidding competitiveness in Asia and the 
Middle East we have established an engineering resource centre 
in Mumbai, India. Recruitment and training are under way and the 
ofﬁce will be fully operational in 2012. In response to increasing 
orders from the FSU we will be establishing a small, local language 
based consulting centre in Moscow in 2012.
Software review
Development of KBC’s software continued at a strong pace in 2011. 
Our software has grown into the number one reactor based modelling 
system for the worldwide downstream energy sector.
2011 marked the successful culmination of a ﬁve year programme 
to deliver and deploy a new version of our Petro-SIM™ software 
that provides customers with a signiﬁcantly improved reﬁnery-wide 
modelling capability. Based on user and market feedback, KBC 
is considered the “gold standard” of reﬁnery process modelling 
and client retention rate on maintenance contracts for our software 
is over 95%, one of the highest in the industry. 
We achieved record revenues from our energy software in 2011 
as clients in both the upstream and downstream energy sectors 
sought to reduce overall energy consumption.
Reliance Industries Limited, India
–  Operating in the six largest reﬁnery 
and petrochemical sites
–  Includes world’s largest reﬁnery complex 
at Jamnagar (1.2m barrels per day)
Energy management system
–  Energy focused organisation – capabilities, tools, procedures, 
best practices and business processes
–  Comprehensive energy management methodology – 
benchmarking, gap analysis and development 
of energy roadmap
–  Energy software tools for scenario analysis 
and design development
– Utility optimisers at complex sites 
–  Energy management system for sustainable 
energy efﬁciency improvement OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
11 KBC Advanced Technologies plc Annual Report 2011
Usage of KBC’s software increased both across our client base 
and on consulting projects undertaken by KBC. User group meetings 
during 2011 in Brazil, Singapore and the United Kingdom attracted 
record numbers of customers producing a healthy dialogue between 
users. This opened an extremely efﬁcient feedback channel to our 
software research and development to help accelerate innovation. 
The negotiation of several software licence sales extended into 
2012 from the last quarter of 2011 and we therefore expect a healthy 
level of software sales in the ﬁrst half of 2012.
Software arbitration
We were pleased to report in September that the allegations 
made by a software competitor concerning the infringement 
of its rights in certain software code had all been dismissed 
through an arbitration process as unfounded.
George Bright
Chief Executive
“ Our services are determined by 
anticipating changes in the market 
and then providing our clients with 
relevant solutions. The breadth and 
scope of our strategic solutions increased 
in 2011 in response to an increase in client 
M&A activities in our markets during the 
second half year. We expect this trend 
to continue in 2012 and beyond.”
New Delhi
Reliance Manufacturing Management System
–  KBC participating in client’s business transformation initiative
–  Specialist management consultancy in reﬁning and petrochemicals
–  Validate and co-develop best practices and business 
processes in:
 – Technology stream
 – Engineering and maintenance 
 – Learning and development
 – Environmental
 – Operations
 – People/organisation
