 KBC Advanced Technologies plc  
Annual report 2014 7
 OVERVIEW
 STRATEGIC REPORT
 GOVERNANCE
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Good prospects 
for the year ahead
Delivering on our strategy
2014 saw significant strategic contract 
wins for KBC in both our targeted upstream 
market and our core downstream business. 
Consulting continued to deliver successfully 
in South America, winning a $48.6m contract 
extension with a South American oil and gas 
company. This was complemented by strong 
Consulting performance in the Middle East 
as well as further growth in Asia and Europe. 
Our Technology offering in upstream oil 
and gas continued to grow and we were 
particularly pleased to see the products from 
our newest acquisition (FEESA) having an 
immediate impact when bundled with our 
existing offerings. The contract award from 
a European oil field services company in the 
fourth quarter of 2014 followed a number 
of other Technology contract awards of note 
in the United States, the Middle East, China, 
Thailand and Vietnam. It is very encouraging 
to see the strong demand for KBC’s Technology 
products supporting KBC’s focus as a key 
software player in the hydrocarbon industry.
2014 was another good year for KBC on several 
fronts and it was particularly pleasing to see 
the measures put into place by the management 
team over recent years resulting in improved 
performance and growth by the Company. 
The partner organisation in Consulting has 
driven personal ambition and a focus on 
commercial targets for margin realisation 
and quality of work delivered. The continued 
expansion of Technology sales through the 
Consulting business and newly expanded 
direct sales channels led to a record level of 
revenue. Consulting and Technology, working 
closely together, each delivered 17% growth 
in top‑line revenue for the year. KBC further 
penetrated the upstream oil and gas market, 
assisted by the important acquisition of 
FEESA, which enables the Group to offer 
software and consulting in the production 
flow assurance area, anchoring wells and 
pipelines to KBC’s established business in 
gas processing, refining and petrochemicals. 
KBC is now very well positioned to offer 
technical engineering and people performance 
solutions across the full breadth of the 
hydrocarbon processing industry and is able 
to move quickly in this chain to support the 
developing segments.
Innovation and information
During 2014 KBC embarked on an ambitious 
project to align all our software releases 
to a common release schedule with shared 
infrastructure and integration. Version 6 of 
Petro‑ SIM™ (process facility simulator), the 
SIM™ models (refinery reactors), Maximus™ 
(wellbore and pipeline hydraulics simulator), 
Multiflash™ (reservoir PVT chemistry) and 
Energy‑ SIM™ (energy optimisation) have all 
now been aligned, with significant advances 
in the interoperability of our technology. 
Clients will now benefit from the full integration 
of well, pipeline, offshore platform, gas plants, 
refineries and petrochemicals models with the 
ability to execute time‑ based scenarios including 
use of their own workflows and plug‑ ins to 
increase production and reduce costs. 2014 
also saw the expansion of KBC’s alliances with 
the addition of Flaretot™, a third‑party process 
plant flare safety simulator, to the KBC software 
suite and the announcement of a plug‑ in to 
Petro SIM for transient pipeline modelling 
from BPT, a Norway based technology 
company. KBC will continue to expand the 
“ecosystem” in which hydrocarbon process 
industry clients can embed technology that 
furthers the value of our platforms and provides 
another high quality revenue stream and will 
seek further alliances with oil field services 
and industrial automation players.
In line with our corporate strategy, 
we have continued to productise parts 
of our Consulting knowledge, experience 
and information into our software and digital 
technologies to enhance Technology revenue, 
allow for intellectual property charges 
in Consulting fees and support the scale 
and leverage of the Consulting organisation 
around technology platforms. The appointment 
of a CTO for KBC will drive this technology 
strategy throughout the Group and our 
alliance partners.
Our people
The KBC team includes a diverse set of 
consulting and software experts in more than 
11 countries, delivering high quality project 
work and software technology. In 2014 the 
enhancement of both Consulting and software 
resources as well as corporate shared services 
has driven results for KBC. KBC began a 
reorganisation in the last quarter of 2014 
to promote the new company strategy with a 
defined commercial sales group covering sales,
Revenue by segment
PIPELINE OF CONTRACTED WORK BY SEGMENT
47.2
44.3
42.7
39.2
55.0
17.9
21.0
18.8
13.0
13.8
53.0
TOTAL REVENUE £m
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
55.7 63.1 65.1
76.0
TECHNOLOGY CONSULTING
Technology 
35%
Consulting 
65% KBC Advanced Technologies plc 
Annual report 2014 8
Ever greater , more 
integrated solutions
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Our people continued
business analysis, product management 
and marketing, all targeted at achieving high 
quality, recurring revenue. A new delivery 
organisation has been built that concentrates 
on delivering all aspects of quality in client 
projects to achieve target margins. KBC’s 
focus on software technology platforms and 
productising Consulting knowledge, to drive 
higher margin sales and increased scale in 
Consulting, has been further enhanced by the 
establishment of a CTO role with a remit to 
expand technology development and adoption 
by KBC. The Company has been reorganised 
into a clear structure that provides focus on 
commercial, operational, innovation and 
back office disciplines appropriate for 
a technology‑based consulting firm.
KBC’s market
For the five years to 2014 high energy prices 
drove strong capital investment and strong 
profit margins throughout the oil industry. 
Those same economics also encouraged 
technical innovations that led to a rapid oil 
production increase and an increasingly 
oversupplied energy market. The oil market 
responded rapidly to the decision by OPEC 
at the end of November 2014 to renounce 
its traditional market‑ balancing role, with oil 
prices plunging more than 50%. These lower 
prices turned the industry on its head and for 
oil companies the key to both survival and 
success is to control their positions in the 
market, rather than being controlled by it. 
To achieve this, KBC believes that the operators 
will need access to many of KBC’s products 
and services to enhance their performance.
In the near term, companies in our industry 
need to focus on revenue generation and 
capital investment to safeguard their balance 
sheets, generate cash flow and service debt. 
In the medium term, success requires 
companies to focus on sound operational 
fundamentals and ongoing evaluation of 
their market position to ensure performance 
is optimised against a changing market 
environment. In the long term, companies 
will be best served by revisiting and 
revalidating their investments against the 
market potential and their own corporate 
strategy. KBC can assist in all these areas 
and has a strong reputation for delivering 
value on all these horizons.
Consulting revenue in 2014 increased by 17% 
to £55.0m (2013: £47.2m) with an operating 
margin of 4% (2013: 3%). Out of the Consulting 
pipeline of work of £57.3m (2013: £52.7m), 
£31.2m (2013: £30.6m) is expected to convert 
into revenue in 2015. Through our focus on 
high quality Consulting revenue, our target 
is to deliver Consulting margins of 9%–10% 
over the next two years.
Many other promising developments in the 
Middle East and North Africa have resulted 
from a focused investment in the region that 
will add further value for KBC.
2014 saw a return to growth for Consulting 
solutions in the North America market, strong 
growth in Southeast Asia and good growth 
in Russia.
The large South American business 
transformation project continues to deliver 
on time and on budget, with clear recognition 
by the client of KBC’s quality consulting, 
methodologies, project management 
and technology in delivering value in many 
aspects of the refinery transformation.
The focus on the Consulting partner 
model with its sales, solution, execution 
and mentoring accountability has continued to 
prove valuable in the quest to raise Consulting 
margins and build strength in KBC’s key 
geographical markets. Senior leadership has 
been strengthened and the Group is in a good 
position to take advantage of growth areas 
in the South America, Middle East and 
Southeast Asia markets.
The Consulting business functions have 
been grouped into four key areas for delivery 
of services to clients: Production Optimisation, 
Operations Management, Strategic Business 
Transformation and Human Performance 
Improvement. These are the core value areas 
of KBC’s Consulting offering and are being 
re‑ packaged to achieve bigger contract 
engagements with clients to improve 
leverage, utilisation and margins for KBC.
Consulting
Revenue
£55.0m
(2013: £47.2m)
55.0
47.2
44.3
42.7
39.2 10
11
12
13
14
54%  
Revenue due  
within 1 year 
(2013: 58%)
46%  
Revenue due in  
more than 1 year 
(2013: 42%)
Pipeline of contracted work
ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2014
  Continued quality execution of the South American business transformation project
    A large (US$48m) extension to the same South American project
    First profit improvement and strategy project in Kuwait in many years
   Repeat business for a second gas plant optimisation project in Saudi Arabia 
   An award for the establishment of an Operational Excellence Academy in Malaysia
  A significant sustainable profit improvement programme in Thailand
  A major technical capability development project award in Saudi Arabia
£57.3m 
(2013: £52.7m) KBC Advanced Technologies plc  
Annual report 2014 9
 OVERVIEW
 STRATEGIC REPORT
 GOVERNANCE
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
2014 was a record year for KBC’s Technology 
business, reflecting the focus and determination 
of the organisation to be a key engineering 
software provider to the industry. Revenue 
for the year was up 17% on 2013 at £21.0m 
(2013: £17.9m), representing good year on 
year progress.
The increase in Technology revenue reflects 
our drive and determination to raise the 
proportion of Technology revenue in the long 
term with Technology representing 28% of 
2014 revenue (2013: 27%). Recurring revenue 
for 2014 was a record £9.0m (2013: £7.8m). 
Out of the total Technology contracted pipeline 
of work of £30.7m (2013: £25.5m), £9.3m 
(2013: £6.7m) is expected to convert into 
revenue in 2015. FEESA and Infochem 
technology revenue has exceeded our initial 
expectations with both acquisitions being 
accretive in 2014 and enabling the pull‑ through 
of Petro‑ SIM into the upstream market space. 
FEESA was acquired in July 2014 and has been 
successfully integrated, with the two founders 
of that company now holding senior executive 
positions on KBC’s Operating Committee. 
Work continues, as planned, to ensure that 
the acquired company standardises on KBC’s 
product lifecycle management processes 
and quality assurance.
Of particular importance in the year was 
the seven‑ year contract with a major oil field 
services company for the licensing of KBC’s 
upstream full simulation portfolio including 
Multiflash, Maximus and Petro‑ SIM. This is the 
first significant sale combining the technology 
of our two recent upstream acquisitions with 
KBC’s heritage software and demonstrates 
the value of KBC’s integrated upstream 
technology strategy.
KBC’s traditional refining technology business 
continued to strengthen in 2014 with key 
contract awards in Asia, South America and 
the Middle East. Our Japanese market saw 
a marked reduction in Technology revenue 
in 2014 due to one unusually high contract 
award in 2013. The refinery reactor and process 
simulation technology, supported by energy 
simulation, forms a high value, rigorous 
picture of refinery wide profitability and, 
when delivered with KBC’s consulting 
services, is a world‑class solution.
KBC continues to look for value‑ adding 
acquisitions that will expand the Technology 
portfolio and contribute to revenue and 
profit growth.
Andrew Howell
Chief Executive Officer
17 March 2015
The Technology margin decreased from 34% 
in 2013 to 24% in 2014 due to much higher 
amortisation from the recent acquisitions and 
a focused investment in sales and marketing 
for Technology.
As part of the successful equity placing in 
June 2014, undertaken primarily to raise funds 
for acquiring technology assets, Norway’s 
Kongsberg Gruppen ASA acquired a 5% stake 
in KBC and has since engaged in an upstream 
technology and services alliance to add higher 
value solutions to its oil company clients 
and accelerate KBC’s penetration into this 
market. This alliance is seen as giving KBC 
an accelerated critical mass in upstream to 
position, sell and deliver significant expansion 
in upstream technology revenue.
Technology
ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2014
  Two major South American software contracts with greater than US$5m total contract value each
   A £3.3m contract with a European oil field services company
   Large software licence expansion projects in Thailand, Vietnam and China
   Large renewals and licence expansions in the Middle East
   New upstream licence agreements in Australasia
  Agreement signed with Flaretot Limited of London, UK, to market its flare system design 
and rating tool, integrated with Petro‑ SIM
Revenue
£21.0m
(2013: £17.9m)
30% 
Revenue due 
within 1 year 
(2013: 26%)
70% 
Revenue due in 
more than 1 year 
(2013: 74%)
£30.7m 
(2013: £25.5m)
Pipeline of contracted work
10
11
12
13
14 21.0
17.9
18.8
13.0
13.8
