 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Delivering growth 
throughout the year
  Another year of good strategic, 
operational and financial performance
  Revenues up 17% to £76.0m  
(2013: £65.1m)
  Adjusted profit before tax
1
 up 13% to £9.5m 
(2013: £8.4m)
  Reported profit before tax of £6.7m  
(2013: £7.1m) 
  Recommended final dividend up 
10% to 1.1p per share (2013: 1.0p)
  Equity fundraising of £23.1m, net 
of expenses, to fund acquisitions 
and provide working capital for 
larger contracts
  Acquisition and integration of FEESA, 
improving KBC’s product and service 
offerings across the full breadth of the 
hydrocarbon processing industry
  Consulting revenue increased by 17%, 
with strong performance in South America, 
further growth in Asia and the Middle East, 
and continued improvement in Consulting 
operating margin
   Another record year for Technology, with 
revenues up 17% and key contract awards 
in Asia, South America, the Middle East 
and Europe
  Strong year end pipeline of contracted 
work, up by 13% to a record £88.0m 
(2013: £78.2m)
  Strengthened executive leadership 
with appointment of a new CEO 
  KBC’s medium and long‑ term market 
prospects continue to offer encouraging 
international growth opportunities
2014 was another good year 
for KBC, with strong financial 
performance and continued 
progress across the Group 
in all aspects of our strategy. ”
Summary
2014 was another good year for KBC. 
The Group performed in line with expectations, 
raised equity for acquisitions and working 
capital and completed an important strategic 
acquisition. The Company also implemented 
a successful executive succession, appointing 
a new Chief Executive Officer from within 
the Group and appointing a new independent 
non‑ executive director to the Board.
Following a strong finish to 2014, KBC 
has started 2015 well and, although there 
are many new industry challenges, we remain 
well positioned to continue our long‑term 
strategy of increasing and strengthening the 
Technology business, improving the margins 
of the Consulting business and continuing our 
long‑term expansion in the upstream oil and 
gas industry, together with growth in hotspots 
such as the Middle East, Southeast Asia and 
South America.
Results
Group revenue for the year increased by 17% 
to £76.0m (2013: £65.1m). Profit before tax 
calculated on an adjusted basis, as detailed 
in note 5b, was 13% higher than the previous 
year at £9.5m (2013: £8.4m). This reflected 
an adjusted profit margin of 13%. Adjusted 
profit after tax increased by 20% from £5.5m 
to £6.6m. 
The Company raised £23.1m net of expenses 
from an equity placing in June 2014. £10m 
of the placing monies was used to fund the 
acquisition of FEESA Limited in July 2014 
and a further £4m was used for working 
capital, particularly for large projects 
in South America and the Middle East.
HIGHLIGHTS
(1)  Adjusted for development costs carried forward, amortisation of 
development costs carried forward, amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles, share based payment charges and other items which 
do not reflect underlying operations (see note 5b) KBC Advanced Technologies plc  
Annual report 2014 5
 OVERVIEW
 STRATEGIC REPORT
 GOVERNANCE
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
We entered 2015 with a record 
pipeline of contracted work 
and a healthy balance sheet 
to support the Group and 
its continued growth.”
Despite an improved performance, the net 
result of this fundraising, coupled with prior 
period one‑ off tax credits, meant that basic 
earnings per share reduced to 5.7p (2013: 9.5p) 
and earnings per share calculated on an adjusted 
basis remained broadly steady at 9.3p per share 
in 2014, from 9.5p in 2013. Diluted earnings 
per share was 5.5p in 2014, compared to 
9.2p in 2013.
Dividend
The Board proposes to pay a final dividend 
for the 2014 financial year of 1.1p per share 
(2013: 1.0p). The total cost of the proposed 
dividend amounts to £0.9m for the 2014 full 
year (2013 full year: £0.8m).
Board and management
During 2014 we strengthened the Board 
and executive leadership of KBC with 
major external hires and internal promotions. 
In November we announced the appointment 
of a new Chief Executive Officer effective 
1 January 2015, a succession we committed 
to when I took over the executive leadership 
of KBC. Andrew Howell was appointed to 
drive the next phase of KBC’s strategy, with 
particular emphasis on developing its position 
in the upstream oil and gas industry and the 
Technology business. Andrew was previously 
the Managing Director of KBC’s Technology 
business and had gained wide oil and 
gas experience with BP, Hyprotech and 
Schlumberger before joining KBC in 2011. 
I remain Chairman of the Company. We also 
strengthened the composition of the Board 
with the addition in February 2014 of a 
new independent non‑ executive director, 
Paul McCloskey, and with the appointment 
of Andrew Howell and Kevin Smith to the 
Board in April 2014.
A new and effective executive team was 
established at the end of the year in order 
to deliver clear leadership across all aspects 
of our business. Kevin Smith was promoted 
to Chief Commercial Officer (“CCO”), a new 
client‑ facing position which spans both 
Consulting and Technology, to drive the 
commercial performance of KBC. Mike Aylott 
has been promoted to Chief Technology 
Officer (“CTO”) from his role of managing 
all the engineering software development. 
The CTO position has been created to 
drive the realisation of the strategic direction 
of the Group towards commercial technology 
platforms underpinning all KBC’s activities. 
This includes expanding the range of our 
engineering software as well as delivering 
the full range of KBC knowledge and intellectual 
property through technology. Ramon Loureiro, 
our most senior partner, remains a key member 
of the executive team, ensuring the tradition 
and success of KBC’s profit improvement 
programmes is captured and further developed 
within the Group’s strategy. In addition, the 
business development resources of the Group 
have been strengthened with a number of 
external recruits as part of a sales transformation 
strategy to improve commercial performance.
Current trading and outlook
During the second half of 2014 the oil and 
gas industry experienced a major upheaval, 
with a significant increase in production 
in North America and Iraq, an unexpected 
slowdown in growth regions such as China 
and a subsequent oil price fall as a result of 
OPEC choosing not to control the market price. 
The longer‑term implications for the market 
are still not fully clear, but KBC is assuming a 
scenario of low oil prices for at least 18 months 
and some further belt‑ tightening by our clients. 
KBC is not affected directly by the US domestic 
oil exploration downturn since a large proportion 
of its business is in the downstream part of that 
market which will be less adversely affected.
Despite this backdrop, KBC achieved solid 
results in 2014 and so far in 2015 the market 
for KBC’s services, while shifting, has remained 
steady. It is difficult to predict the full effect 
of the oil price on KBC’s performance in 2015. 
Some aspects are positive: more clients need 
to optimise their existing assets; Operational 
Excellence practices are in high demand; 
KBC’s Technology solutions are helping clients 
optimise production rates at lower energy costs; 
there is strategic rechecking of the economic 
viability of large capital expenditure projects; 
as oil companies reduce their work forces, 
they will need consultants to fill the gaps; 
downstream refining profitability is now 
returning to higher margins than have been 
seen for several years; and upstream operators 
are looking to drive more efficient production.
At the same time there are potential 
challenges for KBC: pricing pressure from 
a general focus on the oil and gas supply 
chain; cash collection and conversion; revenue 
from upstream oil exports sometimes being 
needed by national oil companies (“NOCs”) 
in order to fund downstream modernisation 
projects; and upstream capital projects delayed 
and postponed. Therefore, KBC is not being 
complacent and is taking action to reshape 
and refocus its business and organisation and 
has additional contingency plans should the 
market for our services deteriorate.
We entered 2015 with a healthy pipeline of 
contracted work of £88.0m (2013: £78.2m), a 
record for the Group. Together with a number 
of key Consulting contract wins in the first two 
months of 2015, this leaves KBC well positioned 
to meet its objectives for the coming year. 
As always, the exact timing of contract awards 
will continue to affect results within any year. 
However, the strength of the pipeline of 
contracted work, an enhanced range of products 
and services and major internal progress in 
2014 give the Board confidence for 2015.
Ian Godden
Chairman
17 March 2015 KBC Advanced Technologies plc 
Annual report 2014 6
Strategic  
report
7 Chief Executive’s review
10 Our business model and strategy
12 Financial review and key performance indicators
14 Principal risks and risk management
