 Kingston Communications (HULL) PLC Annual Report 2004-05 Chief Executive Officer’ s overview
2
Q. How has the Group performed over 
the last year?
A. It has been a very successful – and very busy –
year , during which we have improved our financial
performance across all areas of the Group. We have
delivered growth in sales organically , improved our
margins and resumed paying dividends. We have
also accelerated our strategy of focusing on our
UK target markets and strengthened our ability to
deliver integrated, converged communications
services to our customers.
Q. Why did the Group acquire Eclipse,
Omnetica and T echnica?
A. The acquisition of Omnetica has given us access
to extensive, high quality enterprise data and IP
networking skills together with a very attractive
customer base. The skills and customers we have
gained through this acquisition complement our
existing customer base and traditional strengths 
in providing voice and carrier services. 
The acquisition of T echnica supports the Group’ s
existing capabilities in the growing UK storage
market, and will enhance and strengthen our
business-to-business service offering. 
The combination of new and existing skills within
the Group gives us a stronger position in the
evolving converged solutions market, broadening
our managed services proposition and improving
our ability to serve key vertical markets. At the same
time, we have significantly reduced our dependency
on basic voice services where there has been 
a continuous and substantial decline in prices.
The UK market for broadband internet continues
to grow. While our successful Karoo internet brand
serves our East Y orkshire market, the acquisition 
of Eclipse gives us the opportunity to grow our
broadband capability throughout the rest of the UK.
“During the year we have improved
our financial performance across all
areas of the Group.”
1. Malcolm Fallen, 
Chief Executive Officer
2. Our expansion into Lincolnshire 
is a natural extension of our successful
operation in East Yorkshire
1
2 3
Q. How does ‘Affiniti’ fit with the other
Kingston ‘brands’?
A. The Group has a portfolio of market-facing
identities such as Affiniti, Karoo, Eclipse, Hull Colour
Pages and, of course, Kingston Communications.
These are distinct identities that serve particular
target markets. 
Q. When will the acquisitions have a positive
effect on the share price?
A. The market responded positively to the news
about the acquisitions. It is now up to us to realise
and drive value from the benefits they present to
the Group. While the performance of the Group
obviously affects our share price, it is important 
to remember that there are factors outside of 
our control – such as the performance of other
companies in the sector and overall sentiment
towards our sector and the broader stock market –
that also have an impact on the share price. 
Q. Is the increasing level of debt bad news?
A. The increase in debt reflects the investment 
in the recent acquisitions. The sale of the French
operation after the year end will reduce net debt
and we are confident of further reductions as we
continue to generate cash from the business. 
Q. Will acquisitions be a part of the Group’s
future strategy?
A. We review all of our investment options based 
on their strategic fit with the Group and their ability
to deepen our service capabilities and deliver
profitable growth and shareholder value. Last year’ s
acquisitions were also undertaken to ensure that we
could meet the changing needs of our customers.
However , it is just as important that we continue to
grow our existing business organically and we will
do this by focusing on meeting the communications
needs of the discrete market segments that we have
identified. The organic growth we have experienced
during the last year reflects our success in winning
new customers and increasing the depth of services
sold to existing customers.
Q. Why has the Group decided to expand its
East Yorkshire operation to offer services to
businesses in North Lincolnshire?
A. Many of the businesses with which we have 
a long-established relationship in East Y orkshire also
have offices in North Lincolnshire. We have already
secured several contracts in the area and we are
confident that our service proposition and our
reputation for excellent customer service will mean
that many other businesses in and around Lincoln
and Grimsby will want to do business with us.
Q. What do you think are Kingston’s key
challenges going forward? 
A. It is important that we gain maximum benefit from
our acquisitions by integrating them successfully .
We need to achieve this while maintaining our
focus on the day-to-day challenges of running our
business efficiently and ensuring that our customers
remain at the centre of everything we do.
Q. Can shareholders expect a larger dividend
next year?
A. Our ability to pay a dividend is directly related
to the profitability and cash flows of the Group. 
As improving our profitability is a key objective
going forward, I hope that there will be an
increased dividend payable next year . 
Malcolm Fallen
Chief Executive Officer
Q. How are the business-to-business acquisitions
being integrated within the rest of the Group?
A. Our priority is to ensure that the integration of
these businesses is undertaken properly rather than
just done quickly. The first phase, which was to
present a single sales and marketing identity to our
existing and prospective customers by the start of
the new financial year , was completed successfully .
The first visible sign of that was the launch of Affiniti,
our national business-to-business identity . The next
phase will concentrate on bringing together our
service delivery capabilities and integrating the
processes and systems.
Ultimately , the core objective of the integration
process is to optimise service delivery . Our goal is to
improve the customer experience and increase sales
productivity while continuing to drive efficiencies
through the business.
Q. Why did you create a new brand – 
Affiniti – for the Group’s national business-
to-business operation?
A. The new business has been created by bringing
together Kingston’ s national business-to-business
operation with Omnetica and T echnica. T ogether
they offer a broader and deeper service offering
than they did as individual businesses. 
The Kingston Communications brand is strongly
associated with voice and carrier expertise, while
the market associates the Omnetica brand with
enterprise data networking. We want our target
markets to know that we are much more than just 
a provider of voice communications or a data
networking company . What we’ve created in the
UK, under the Affiniti brand, is a new, end-to-end
proposition as a communications integrator .
The Affiniti brand only applies to our national
business-to-business operation – we have retained
the Kingston Communications identity for all of 
our other activities.
