 1
A message from your Chairman
Dear Shareholder
Results
We began the year in a much improved position
with clear objectives to continue to strengthen the
Group’ s financial performance and to pay a dividend
to our shareholders. We have achieved these
objectives. Revenue from our continuing business,
excluding acquisitions, has increased and margins
have improved resulting in an increased operating
profit. This improvement in profitability has provided
the basis for both the payment of an interim dividend
and a proposed final dividend.
Strategy
In terms of strategic direction for the Group, 
we accelerated our positioning as a provider of
integrated, converged communications services 
in the UK through the acquisitions of Omnetica and
T echnica. The combined capabilities of the resulting
business-to-business operation have reduced 
our exposure to increasingly commoditised basic
telecommunications voice services and provided
us with access to higher quality recurring revenues.
At the same time, we have created an enviable
combined customer base with demonstrable
strengths in discrete market segments.
The acquisition of Eclipse Internet complements
our existing broadband capability and gives us 
the opportunity to increase our broadband service
portfolio and develop a customer base throughout
the UK.
These additions to our Group, combined with the
continued focus and capacity to meet the changing
communications needs of our customers, have
greatly enhanced our position over the year .
Board changes
During this year, we announced a number of 
Board changes.
In January we announced the appointment of
Executive Director Peter Halls and Non-Executive
Directors Johannes Huth and Clare Page. Peter Halls,
aged 54, is a director of the Group’ s business-to-
business operation, Affiniti. Peter was formerly CEO
of Omnetica and has over 25 years experience in
the IT industry . Johannes Huth, aged 44, is Head 
of European activities for one of the Group’ s major
shareholders, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts. Clare Page,
aged 34, has been a member of the Kingston upon
Hull City Council since May 2002 and was previously
a Non-Executive Director of the Company from
October 2002 until June 2003.
Maxwell Bird, a Non-Executive Director since June
2003, resigned from the Board in March. We thank
him for his contribution and wish him well.
Outlook
The Board is greatly encouraged by the
improvement in the Group’ s financial performance.
In light of this we are recommending payment of 
a final dividend of 0.54 pence per share, resulting
in a full year dividend of 0.9 pence per share. 
As outlined at the time of our interim results, our
future policy is to increase dividends in line with
underlying earnings before amortisation of
intangible assets.
The new financial year has begun in line with our
expectations as we start to see early benefits from
the initial stages of the integration of the business.
We look forward to delivering further improvement
in the Group’ s overall performance in the year ahead.
Michael Abrahams CBE DL
Chairman
“The Board is greatly encouraged 
by the improvement in the Group’s
financial performance.”
