 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2013/14
STRATEGIC REPORT
02
Our business at a glance
Kcom segment
UK-based businesses and public sector organisations
Communications solutions to support business goals
KCOM Group is the partner of choice 
for consumers and organisations 
wanting to harness the power 
of communications
We provide communications 
services to organisations 
and consumers
Our key partners 
I Amazon Web Services
I Avaya
I BT
I Cisco
I Cobweb
I Comms-Care
I ForgeRock
I IBM
I Microsoft
KC segment
Consumers, businesses and public sector organisations 
in the Hull and East Yorkshire region
Telecommunications and internet-based services
We report our activities under two segments
Our strategic vision is to passionately 
pursue better ways to connect people and 
to deliver inspiring customer experiences
Our strategic pillars
Customers
Partners
People
Processes and systems
See also
Our strategy
14
Our ambition
To become an acknowledged leader in the markets 
we serve and an automatic partner of choice for 
consumers and organisations in those markets.
See also
Our business model
7 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2013/14 03
Strategic report
See also
Corporate responsibility
24
37%  Female
63 %   Male
Employees by gender 
(as at 31 March 2014)
We operate responsibly –  
the way we do business is  
as important as what we do
Our focus for Corporate Responsibility (CR)
1,900 
people
Community
Supply chain
People
Environment
5
1
3
6
2
4
8
7
We serve customers 
across the UK from eight 
office locations
1 Brighton
2 Exeter
3 Hemel Hempstead
4 Hull
5 Ipswich
6 London
7 Reading
8 Wakefield
Some of our customers
I Admiral Group
I ASDA
I  Association of Train 
Operating Companies
I Aviva
I Domino’s Pizza
I Dorset PSN
I East Midlands PSN
I  HM Revenue & Customs
I Molson Coors
I Morrisons
I  N at i ona l F a r m er s 
Union Mutual
I Phones4u
I RNLI
I RSPB
I United Utilities
I Visa
Our main office locations KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2013/14
STRATEGIC REPORT
04
Technology plays an increasing role in business and everyday life. 
We live in an always-on, 24/7 connected society. At home, activities 
such as internet shopping and online gaming are part of day-to-day life. 
At work, the way organisations and the people within them interact and 
collaborate has changed significantly. We are increasingly dependent 
on being able to harness the power of communications technologies. 
Using the capabilities of our Group and its partners we can help 
people and organisations harness that technological power by creating 
services that satisfy the varied requirements of the markets we serve. 
By monitoring future trends in technology and business, and by listening 
to our customers’ plans and needs, we design and shape the services we 
can offer now and in the future.
The rise of the data hungry household 
Over the past five years, demand for faster broadband speeds and data 
usage has grown dramatically, and it’s easy to see why. With more and 
more households owning multiple devices – tablets, computers, games 
consoles and smart TVs – there is a constant stream of data flowing 
into and out of the home.
Alongside this, we have become used to accessing services like 
Netflix and YouTube, where the speed and download capacity 
of our internet connection is key. This is driving demand for 
faster and faster broadband services. 
Looking to the future, with more devices and services set to join this online 
world – including telehealth for monitoring patients in their own homes 
and smart appliances which send data back to an external organisation, 
as with smart metering services – the thirst for bandwidth and superfast 
internet is set to continue.
Building better businesses
Today connectivity is crucial for businesses of all sizes. The internet 
has made the world a much smaller place and businesses now have to 
contend not only with traditional bricks and mortar based operations 
but also lower cost, internet-based competition in the UK and abroad. 
For the small enterprise owner, balancing the need to focus on growing 
business with being able to access a range of technologies can be 
a challenge. Much like consumers, they want bundled solutions that can 
deliver all their communications needs. Having access to customer and 
technical support is also vital, as small organisations typically have limited 
specialist in-house IT resource.
For larger organisations, the challenges become more complex, driven 
not only by new demands from customers but also the need to leverage 
talent across the organisation. 
The growing role 
of technology
At KCOM Group, we believe we have 
a significant opportunity to help people 
and organisations harness the power 
of technology. We create services 
to satisfy the requirements of the 
markets we serve by:
 I Monitoring future trends 
in technology and business
 I Listening to our customers’ plans and needs
 I Designing and shaping the services we can 
offer now, and in the future
Market opportunities KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2013/14 05
Strategic report
As the marketplace becomes increasingly competitive, organisations are 
looking for new ways to stand out from the crowd. The ability to deliver 
consistent and high standards of customer service can be a challenge 
when there is also pressure to deliver more for less. 
Customer service
Organisations that can adapt to key trends in customer service will be 
able to deliver an experience that will empower customers and provide 
a competitive advantage. 
The explosion in broadband, smartphone and social media adoption, 
and the pace of technological change present opportunities for 
personalisation, enhanced customer service and innovation to 
differentiate organisations against the background of a ‘more 
for less’ environment.
The economic environment has been very challenging for some time 
causing organisations to re-think their plans. Alongside cost reduction 
programmes, management teams are now looking to embrace innovation 
and IT to create a competitive advantage and find new ways to interact 
with their customers, deliver services and manage their operations 
and supply chain.
By integrating online channels into their contact strategy, organisations 
can build a single view of the customer, tailor their service to customer 
needs, and respond in the timeframe that today’s consumers expect. 
As some online channels are effectively self-service, there is an 
opportunity for organisations to become more efficient in the way 
they handle customer contact.
Research we’ve undertaken in partnership with the Contact Centre 
Association (CCA) has shown that 60 per cent of customers want to talk 
to a person, rather than an automated system – this is in stark contrast 
to figures that show up to 80 per cent of businesses want to increase 
self-service features for their customers. There are however certain 
transactions that customers prefer to handle via self-service or automated 
systems. There is an opportunity for organisations to find a balance 
between human interaction and automated services and take 
a multi-channel approach to delivering customer service which 
will increase both satisfaction and efficiency. 
The future of work
In just over 20 years, we’ve gone from a paper-driven society to one 
that is almost entirely digital - and we are now connected in ways that 
would have seemed like science fiction in the early 1990s.
Organisations that have been traditionally based upon hierarchical, 
pyramid, command and control models are now flattening their 
structures and evolving organisational design thinking from a ‘built 
to last’ approach to one that is ‘built to change’. Social software, 
collaborative technologies, workflow automation and task tracking 
are enabling organisations to become more flexible and agile. A key 
component of this new, agile structure is the application of tools and 
technologies that can create virtual networks and allow greater mobility 
of skills and knowledge.
At the same time, changes in workplace demographics, and a drive 
towards greater work/life flexibility have coincided with faster access 
speeds and the emergence of new technology such as 4G to create 
an expectation from an increasingly specialised workforce for 
collaboration and communications tools that enhance productivity 
and speed up innovation. 
Creating work/life flexibility will be a priority for organisations seeking 
to attract and retain talent. Empowering employees to deliver the best 
results and an enhanced customer experience will make collaboration 
tools and off-site connectivity a key success factor. Technology has 
gone mobile, the use of video and gamification in business is growing, 
and employees are pushing for choice as consumer devices outpace 
corporate ones in terms of functionality and ease of use.
Business leaders and end users are already bringing their own tablets 
and smartphones into the workplace and using cloud applications such 
as Dropbox, Evernote and SkyDrive to store and transfer corporate data. 
While this presents an opportunity for employees to be more productive, 
it creates an information security risk to the organisation.
Being prepared for, and embracing, such opportunities is critical for both 
organisations and individuals. Organisations are increasingly becoming 
aware that people are a key strategic asset, so finding ways to foster 
innovation and productivity is key to success. Technology, particularly 
enterprise-grade communications and collaboration tools, can have a 
big impact on how employees interact and solve problems. Being ready 
to meet the challenges of security and device management will be 
critical to success.
Organisations are looking for trusted partners to help them navigate 
through the latest trends in business and IT, and identify and deliver 
new, compelling capabilities in the areas of collaboration, contact, 
mobility and Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) services that add 
demonstrable value. 
Connectivity is at the heart of everything
In order to exploit these technologies in the workplace to the best effect, 
organisations are increasingly looking to pay for what they use, rather 
than owning technology assets outright. Connectivity will be key to 
delivering hybrid cloud solutions that allow organisations to accelerate 
innovation, explore new ideas and reduce the time to bring new products 
to market. These solutions will help them stay poised to take advantage 
of rapid technological advances, and give them the agility, flexibility and 
scalability to respond to opportunities, all for a predictable cost. To exploit 
these opportunities, organisations require much more from their networks 
than ever before and thinking of the network in a strategic way has never 
been more important. Networks will become intelligent, contextual and 
service-aware, and they will be judged on what they enable rather than 
what they are. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2013/14
STRATEGIC REPORT
06
Connectivity is at the heart of everything continued
In an increasingly competitive world, successful organisations must look 
to embrace the opportunities and seek out innovative methods for 
facing everyday challenges.
It’s more than the possibility of using technology to avoid undesirable 
tasks through automation and the streamlining of processes. It’s about 
harnessing knowledge and information to provide a richer view of our 
customers and allowing technology to empower us by innovating and 
expanding our existing capabilities; ultimately being augmented rather 
than replaced by technology.
The challenge for IT teams 
Because it is such a driver for change, understanding the potential that 
can be realised by technology is a must for organisations that want to 
create a high-performance workplace.
In the past, IT innovation took place in the workplace first and then, 
when commoditised, became available in the consumer space. 
Since 2009 this has been reversed. Consumer IT has delivered 
transformational innovation that is now being embraced in 
the enterprise.
End users want a consumer IT experience and the IT function wants 
secure, enterprise-grade IT services. The reality is that it’s possible for 
both. Cloud, social media, mobility and Big Data are a nexus of forces 
that is transforming the way businesses will function in the future.
Rapid innovation and the proliferation of technology have changed the 
way we live and work. Organisations want more from their IT networks, not 
just in terms of speed, but also functionality, connectivity and reliability.
This means that organisations must focus on IT now more than ever, 
finding new ways to integrate technology into the company strategy to 
enhance communication, streamline operations, increase revenue and 
transform the business.
In this context, IT becomes a strategic enabler for business, unlocking 
the potential of people across organisations through new collaboration, 
contact and mobility services and experiences to customers, employees 
and partner networks.
Not only are organisations becoming more tech savvy, so are 
their consumers and employees, and end users are seeking increased 
personalisation, integration and connectivity in all facets of technology.
Whatever the market segment, it’s clear that customers are looking for 
some key things from their technology partner: the skills and capability 
to create and integrate solutions; great customer service to anticipate 
and meet their needs, innovative thinking and access to the right 
products and services.
What it means for KCOM Group
At KCOM Group, we bring all these elements together to create the right 
solutions for customers across our markets. We base our strategy on 
four strategic pillars: 
 I our customer focus – through each of our brands we tailor our offer to 
the needs of a particular set of customers and deliver an experience to 
match their requirements; 
 I our people – making sure we leverage their skills and capabilities and 
create the right environment for them to achieve their full potential; 
 I our partners – who help us to deliver a wide breadth of services which 
we can bring together using our expertise and experience; and
 I our processes and systems – making sure they give us the flexibility 
and agility to serve our customers. 
Find out more about our approach in the ‘Our business model’ section 
of this report on pages 7 to 9.
Market opportunities continued
