 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2013/14
STRATEGIC REPORT
12
This year’s results reflect the progress we have made in key focus areas 
across the Group, underpinned by the highly cash-generative nature 
of the business.
The vision for our Group is to passionately pursue better ways to connect 
people and this underpins all our activity. In today’s world, connecting 
people is more than just providing simple network connections; it’s about 
collaboration and value-adding interactions, whether that is direct 
communication between people, or interactions that occur through the 
vast array of applications and systems we use at home and at work. As a 
business, we focus on helping our customers harness the power of those 
technologies that enable such connections to take place.
This year’s results reflect the 
progress we have made in key 
areas across the Group 
Bill Halbert
Chief Executive
12
KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2013/14
CEO’s statement
We are now moving into the next stage 
of the Group’s development KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2013/14 13
Strategic report
As the economy begins to recover, we expect to see further opportunities 
across both the public and enterprise sectors, as many organisations 
begin to make IT investments to underpin their renewed ambitions.
Internally, we have started to invest in strengthening our Group 
capability, introducing new ways of working and increasing our ability to 
leverage the wide range of skills and capability of our people across the 
business. As part of this, we are undertaking substantial investment in 
our core IT systems in support of some of these new ways of operating. 
Outlook
We are now moving into the next stage of the Group’s development 
as we continue to grow our capabilities and help our customers 
to harness the power of communications.
The Group is well positioned to continue exploiting the opportunities 
that exist in its key markets. We will continue to invest in expanding 
the reach of, and building customer demand for, our fibre-based 
broadband services and similarly in growing our share of the wider 
enterprise market we serve. While, as we do so, we expect to see a 
continued decline in some traditional carrier revenue, we are confident 
of achieving successful growth in our value-added services. 
With the strong underlying cash flow of the Group, refinancing 
finalised and the positive indicators within the Group, we will consider 
also opportunities for investment in these focus areas going forward.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone across the Group 
for helping make this year one of further progress on our transformation 
journey. I look forward to continued achievement and success, as we 
progress our plans. 
Bill Halbert
Chief Executive
18 June 2014
In our consumer market, there continues to be growing demand for our 
fibre-based services, with the take-up rate of 27 per cent being ahead 
of our initial expectations and above UK averages. Over 29,000 premises 
now have access to superfast fibre broadband and we remain on target 
to pass 45,000 by March 2015. The investment we are making in this 
infrastructure today, which takes fibre directly to the premise, provides 
us with a future-proof network capable of satisfying both current and 
any future demand for high bandwidth services. 
Alongside the deployment of fibre across our network, we are looking 
at opportunities to provide innovative ‘over the top’ services. 
We recently launched a high definition, cloud-based CCTV service 
and are talking to a number of other potential partners that provide 
a range of business and consumer services. The range of services 
available is evolving rapidly as more people gain access to fibre services.
The success that we have achieved to date with our superfast fibre 
deployment has helped shape our thinking as we begin to scope the 
next phase. We expect to outline our future plans when we announce 
our half year results in November 2014.
Across the other areas of the Group, we continue to build our reputation 
in the design, delivery and management of value-added services in the 
wider enterprise market. There have been a number of notable contract 
wins and renewals. New customers include HM Revenue & Customs, 
RNLI and National Farmers Union Mutual, all of whom are taking 
a range of services that we will manage on their behalf. This ability 
to attract, and importantly, retain customers is a reflection of our 
growing reputation in the market. 
There is continued growth in both Smart421 and Eclipse. Both brands are 
establishing strong reputations in the provision of cloud-based services. 
Eclipse has launched a range of hosted services aimed at small to 
medium businesses who typically need a technology and 
communications partner to support them.
There is also an increasing interest in the use of cloud technology in 
the enterprise market and we have successfully positioned ourselves, 
alongside our partner, Amazon Web Services, as a leading integrator and 
consultant for organisations looking to embrace cloud-based solutions. 
For example, in May, we successfully migrated all the UK’s rail ticketing 
systems on behalf of the Association of Train Operating Companies.
