 STRATEGIC REPORT
Chairman’s statement
Dear shareholder
The Group has performed well during the past financial year, with 
progress being made in all our target markets. Subject to shareholder 
approval at the AGM in July, the Board is proposing a final dividend 
of 3.25 pence per share, which is in line with our existing commitment 
to increase the full year dividend by 10 per cent per annum until 
March 2016. This financial year also marks a key point in the 
transformation for our Group. 
The business has successfully refocused 
on those activities that deliver most 
value to customers
Graham Holden
Chairman
10
KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2013/14
At the same time, we are mindful that 
how we operate as a business is as 
important as the services we offer KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2013/14 11
Strategic report
Over the past five years, Bill Halbert has led the Board and the 
Group as Executive Chairman. During that period, the business 
has successfully refocused on those activities that deliver most 
value to our customers and offer opportunities to grow our 
market presence; at the same time, we have been able to provide 
progressive dividend growth to shareholders. Having completed 
that stage of the Group’s transition, the Board agreed it was an 
appropriate time to move to a more traditional Board structure, with 
separate Chairman and Chief Executive Officer roles. This provides 
Bill Halbert, as Chief Executive, with additional capacity to drive 
forward the Group’s strategy and I am delighted and proud to have 
taken up the role of Chairman. 
Having seen the Group develop and transform during my time as a 
Non-Executive Director, I know that there is a wealth of talent within 
the organisation and it has such a great heritage on which to build. 
In my role as Chairman, my focus will be to ensure that your Board 
operates effectively and in line with good governance. I am also 
committed to being an ambassador for the Group both internally and 
externally, supporting Bill and his leadership team as they steer the 
business through its next stage of transformation.
We have an extremely effective Board, with strong, experienced 
Non-Executive Directors with a range of skills and experience which 
enables a good level of debate and challenge. Having transitioned to 
a new Board structure, we have been looking to appoint an additional 
Non-Executive Director and are mindful that one of the key challenges 
facing many publicly quoted companies is that of reflecting diversity on 
their Boards. As a Group, we are committed to reflecting diversity of all 
kinds, and gender in particular. This forms an important part of our 
People Strategy and has been a key area of focus in our selection 
process for a new Non-Executive Director. While the selection process 
is ongoing, our aim is to bring wider diversity to the Board within the 
next 12 months, subject to finding a candidate with the right experience 
and skills. Any new appointments to the Board will stand for election by 
shareholders at the AGM in 2015.
Kevin Walsh, one of our Executive Directors, announced his intention 
to retire from the Group during the summer of 2014 and he will not be 
seeking re-election at the AGM. Kevin joined the business in May 2004 
and, alongside his Executive Director role, was responsible for the 
management of our KC brand for the past 10 years. During that time, 
he oversaw its transition into the UK’s leading provider of fibre-based 
services. On behalf of the Board, I’d like to thank him for his contribution 
and insight and wish him well with his retirement plans.
As part of our ongoing transformation, we are mindful that how 
we operate as a business is as important as the services we offer. 
There has been a great deal of progress in both areas. KC has been 
shortlisted in three categories in this year’s Internet Service Providers 
(ISPA) Awards including Best Superfast Broadband, Best Business 
Customer Service and Best Business Use of Cloud for our fibre-based 
CCTV offering. Our Eclipse brand was recognised in the Comms 
National Awards in the SME Vertical Solution category for its supply of 
ICT products and services. Our community programmes, which offer 
employees the chance to give something back to their local area, 
remain very popular with individuals and as team building 
opportunities. As part of our patronage of the Prince’s Trust, people 
across the Group have donated over 2,000 volunteering hours, in this 
year alone, to help disadvantaged young people to find work.
Finally, I’d like to acknowledge the immense contribution made by 
everyone across our organisation. Working against a backdrop of 
economic uncertainty and ongoing business transformation, it is 
challenging to deliver such progress. I’d like to thank everyone for their 
efforts over the past year. It is their commitment to providing inspiring 
customer experiences that builds our growing reputation in the market.
Graham Holden
Non-Executive Chairman
18 June 2014
