 06
Chief Executive’s review
Kelda continues to be a well managed, 
highly focused business committed to 
delivering sector leading financial, operational 
and environmental performance. 07 Kelda Group plc Annual report & accounts 2003
A year of continuing achievement
The past year has been one of continuing achievement for 
Kelda Group plc. Our strategy to put our primary focus on what
we do best, providing high quality water services, has helped
us to deliver what we believe is sector leading performance.
Our focus will continue.
Our main UK subsidiary, Yorkshire Water, made significant
improvements in its financial, operational and environmental
performance and continued to outperform all of the regulatory
targets set at the last price review.
Aquarion, our US operation, successfully integrated the 
four New England water companies acquired from American
Water Works in April 2002.
Other businesses have performed in line with expectations.
We were particularly pleased that we made the successful
bid for Package A of the Ministry of Defence’s Private Finance
Initiative, in conjunction with Earth Tech Engineering Ltd and
Halliburton KBR. 
The group’s activities are documented in more detail
later in this report. The following summary highlights the
key achievements of 2002/03. 
• Yorkshire Water is now ranked second in Ofwat’s Overall 
Performance Assessment which compares the levels
of service provided by the UK’s ten major water and
sewerage companies. 
• Yorkshire Water’s water supply service was ranked as
the most efficient in Ofwat’s relative efficiency report. 
• Reported water quality in the Yorkshire region was the
best it had ever been, with 99.91% of all samples
complying with relevant regulations, according to the 
Drinking Water Inspectorate’s (DWI) annual report on
drinking water quality in England and Wales for 2001.
• Our US operations continue to grow and develop with
the acquisition of four New England water companies
from American Water Works which have now been
integrated into existing operations, and further
investment in contract operations. 
• Yorkshire Water is a key partner in Brey Utilities – 
a consortium comprising Yorkshire Water, Earth Tech 
Engineering Ltd and Halliburton KBR – which has won
a 25 year £1bn contract to provide water and waste 
water services to more than 1,000 Ministry of Defence 
sites in the Midlands, Wales and South West England.
• In December 2002, Yorkshire Water was awarded
an interim price determination facilitating additional
investment in the services we provide. 
• Kelda was confirmed as the water industry’s leading 
performer based on an external assessment carried
out by the Business in The Environment Index of
Corporate Environmental Engagement. 
• Yorkshire’s rivers and bathing waters are the cleanest
since records began as a direct result of Yorkshire Water’s
ongoing investment and reduction of pollution incidents.
• Loop – Kelda’s customer relationship management business –
continued to win new business and was featured in both
the Financial Times’ Top 50 Best Workplaces in the UK
survey and the Sunday Times’ 100 Best Companies to
Work For awards. 
• Aquarion secured a ten year contract to operate waste
water treatment services in Bridgeport, Connecticut, 
home of the company’s headquarters. 
Periodic review
We believe that the progress Yorkshire Water has made since
the last price determination in 2000, in service, operational and
financial performance, places the company in a good position
for the forthcoming price review. Our objective is to protect the
long term financial and operational sustainability of the business,
which involves balancing the financeability of agreed investment
needs with acceptable prices to customers. This demands 
a joined up process from government, the regulator, environmental
and compliance agencies and finance providers.
Investing in our people
Additional to our focus strategy, a key part of the group’s
continuing success is due to the talent, hard work and enthusiasm
of employees across the business. In the last 12 months we have
successfully introduced new information technology systems
and more flexible working patterns and practices, to better
match our services to customers’ needs. The introduction of
these changes has required a significant investment in our
people to provide them with the necessary training and skills
to implement the changes and deliver the benefits. It has also
involved extensive consultation with employees and the various
trade unions that represent them, whose support and goodwill
has been important in helping deliver change which is already
bringing important benefits to our customers. 
I would like to express my sincere thanks to everyone who 
has played their part in delivering improved services, a key
feature of the group’s success over the past 12 months.
Kevin Whiteman
Chief Executive
