 04
Chairman’s statement
Strong operational and financial performance
in the Yorkshire Water business and the
successful acquisitions in the US by Aquarion
contributed to growth in profit before tax 
and exceptional items of 7.7%.
The final year results maintained and improved the good start
made in the first half. In total, profit before tax and exceptional
items of £175.2m was up 7.7% on prior year. The underlying
adjusted earnings per share excluding deferred tax were 42.4p 
per share an 8.4% increase on prior year. The main source of the
improved result was an excellent second half performance from
Yorkshire Water with further cost and capital efficiencies which 
at the same time delivered best ever drinking water compliance,
environmental and customer service outputs.
The Kelda balance sheet remains strong with gearing 
of 50%. An opportunity was taken in the year to increase long
term debt with a successful offering of £300m bonds which
completed in February. The Board recommend a final dividend
of 18.19p per share which makes a full year dividend of 26.05p, 
an increase of 2.2% compared to prior year.
In the interim results the Board announced important senior
management changes with the appointment of Kevin Whiteman,
Managing Director of Yorkshire Water as Chief Executive, Martin
Towers joined us as Group Finance Director and Rich Schmidt,
President of Aquarion was appointed as an executive director of
Kelda Group plc. These appointments have further strengthened
Kelda management, and are part of a continuing review of
management standards at all levels in the company. 
One of the continuing features of last year was the delivery
of the benefits arising from our focus on water and waste
water. In the US the acquisition of the New England operations
of American Water Works was completed and integrated
into existing operations. The US management responded
well to an integration challenge which coincided with a period
of increased operating complexity caused by water restrictions
due to the low snowfall of the prior year. Aquarion was
successful in winning a major $110m waste water contract
in Bridgeport, Connecticut, and made further investment
in the organic growth of contract operations expertise. 05 Kelda Group plc Annual report & accounts 2003 05
In the UK Yorkshire Water had an excellent year. It delivered
beyond expectations on cost and capital dimensions whilst
achieving best ever standards of performance in crucial
compliance and customer service dimensions. It was also
successful in winning the Midlands, Wales and South West 
region in the national Ministry of Defence contract, one of 
the largest contracts of its type ever put to tender. Yorkshire 
Water was also granted an interim price adjustment from Ofwat
for the period up to April 2005 which covers the needs of
increased investment, increased costs in sewer flooding and 
higher construction costs. It also enables us to meet the 
challenge of increased Drinking Water Inspectorate compliance
and environmental standards. Yorkshire Water had a year of
continuing progress in all aspect of its services and operations.
There was good progress in the results of the supporting
operations of KeyLand (property) and Loop (customer services).
An announcement was made earlier this year regarding our
45.5% holding in Waste Recycling Group plc (WRG) to the
effect that WRG was in discussions which may or may not lead
to an offer for WRG from the private equity firm Terra Firma.
Subsequent to the signing of the 2002/03 accounts, on 9 June
2003 WRG announced a recommended offer from Terra Firma
for 267.5p per share to be effected by a scheme of arrangement.
The continuous delivery of Kelda’s water and waste water
services has a significant environmental dimension. We deal
with environmental issues as diverse as management and access
of water catchment areas, sustainable water management,
river water and bathing water standards. Our performance
affects all our customers and everyone who lives in the region
we serve. Kelda attempts at all times to be environmentally
focused. We have also developed a broad section of community
programmes involving partnerships within local communities
and organisations to help support and deliver community
involvement by programmes of education, amenities, protection
and sustainability on a wide range of environmental matters.
Our staff and management are also involved in a large
number of voluntary programmes supporting broader community
initiatives such as improved reading standards in schools,
improved health and nutrition for children. We also sponsor
and support community initiative programmes. We have actively
supported government schemes to improve countryside access
and amenity by working closely with the competing interests and
increased public access to our important moorland catchment
and nature conservation areas. All these activities constitute
part of what is now termed corporate and social responsibility.
Such activities have and continue to form an essential part
of our day to day actions and responsibilities and are reported
in more detail in this report.
The Board was pleased to see the shareholder support 
that has led to Kelda entering the FTSE 100. Kelda believes 
it has played a part in helping to get greater financial market
recognition of the underlying value of the water sector.
Our strategy of focusing on water and waste water and on service
and efficiency, has resulted in Kelda progressing to become one
of the most efficient companies in the sector. Our objective is
to maintain our focus and emphasis on performance which we
believe to be in the best interests of our shareholders and customers.
In summary, this has been a year of continued progress on 
all fronts. Given the performance of the company, the Board 
would wish to thank the management team and equally
importantly to thank all employees for their positive contribution
to improved results. The world and the water sector remains 
a challenging environment. There is no place for complacency 
if we are to continually meet the demands of increasing 
efficiency, simultaneous improvement of standards of quality 
and environmental compliance. Our goals must be to improve
performance further, expand outsourced and contract
operations, and be responsive to opportunities for further
profitable growth in our core activities, whilst maintaining 
a positive dialogue with government and regulators.
Since the half year we have had the confirmation of the
25 year Aquatrine contract and the interim price determination
which takes us to year March 2005. These are both positive
outcomes since we published our half year results. We said
then and repeat now, that with regard to the possible 2005
price determination we continue to be encouraged by the
dialogue between regulator, government and industry. There
is an increased consensus on the significant achievements of
the industry and on the priorities that need to be addressed
if we are to encourage equity and capital markets to provide
the industry’s long term investment funding, on which all
future quality improvements increasingly depend. In our
view the long term industry outlook remains positive as
long as this dialogue is maintained.
John Napier
Chairman
