 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 06
Business review
Chief Executive’s review
CHI
Group profit attributable to shareholders 
(as reported under IFRS) increased by 15.9%
to £174.1m with adjusted earnings per share
increasing 10.1% to 46.9p (2005: 42.6p).
Our full year dividend has increased 4.6% 
to 30.35p a share.
Yorkshire Water had a good year. Improved
efficiency, customer service and environmental
compliance helped the company to further
industry recognition and record levels of 
customer satisfaction.
Progress in developing our Kelda Water Services
(KWS) business has also been excellent. From a
standing start just over 5 years ago, KWS is now
one of the leading utility infrastructure outsourcing
businesses in the UK and well placed to take
advantage of future opportunities in this sector.
Improved performance from our Aquarion water
business in the US preceded our announcement in
February of its conditional sale to Macquarie Bank,
a move which we believe represents a positive
outcome for shareholders and committed new
ownership for Aquarion.
These achievements have put the group in a very
strong position at the end of the financial year and
have been made possible by the commitment and
professionalism of our people and service partners
and our continued drive to deliver total shareholder
value, balanced by improved service, environmental
compliance and good corporate social responsibility.
Review of business performance
Yorkshire Water enjoyed a good start to the new
five year price determination period maintaining
our track record for out-performance of both
operating and capital programme delivery targets.
Increases in turnover and good operating cost
performance have enabled the company to 
deliver a year on year improvement in operating
profit. The impact of IFRS adjustments has also
contributed to improved profitability as detailed 
in the financial review.
Yorkshire Water gained industry recognition by
being named Utility of the Year for the second year
running and for the first time ever, achieved top
position in the 2004/05 annual Ofwat Overall
Performance Assessment, reflecting continuous
improvement in the service provided to customers.
The company was also named by Ofwat as the UK’s
most efficient water and sewerage company, with
3 ‘A’ ratings for efficiency.
Despite below average rainfall for 7 out of the 
12 months during the period there are no water
resource issues in the region and the company has
no plans for water restrictions in Yorkshire in 2006.
KWS also had a good year, with both profits and
turnover increasing as a result of strong operating
performance of existing businesses and the
inclusion of a full year’s contribution from the
operations contract with Welsh Water.
A KWS-led consortium (Dalriada Water Limited) 
was also successful in being named preferred bidder
by the Water Service of Northern Ireland to design,
build, finance and operate water treatment facilities
that will supply 50% of Northern Ireland’s water. 
Kevin Whiteman
Chief executive, Kelda Group plc
All round good performance from Kelda Group
companies has seen real progress on a number 
of fronts this year. 07
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Yorkshire Water had a good
year. Improved efficiency,
customer service and
environmental compliance
helped the company to 
further industry recognition 
and record levels of 
customer satisfaction.
This contract of approximately £500m is over 25
years, with operational commencement expected
in 2008.
At Aquarion profits and turnover increased during
the year due to improved operating performance
and efficiency and better weather during the
summer of 2005. Having improved returns at the
business, but seeing few opportunities for growing
our US interests without further major investment,
we were pleased to announce the conditional sale
of the business to Macquarie Bank. We believe 
we achieved a good price for the sale and are
confident that the move will prove positive for
both shareholders and Aquarion.
Outlook
The conditional sale of Aquarion, continued
operating efficiency and performance at Yorkshire
Water and an increased contribution from KWS has
put the group in a strong position going forward.
Following regulatory approvals and completion 
of the Aquarion sale (anticipated to occur in late
2006) we will provide clarification regarding the
use of the proceeds.
Looking ahead we can expect that prospects 
in 2006/07 for further operating cost out-
performance at Yorkshire Water will be significantly
diminished by escalating energy costs. The
business is exploring a number of initiatives to
deliver savings and reduce consumption.
Our non-regulated businesses continue to make
progress, with KWS now accounting for 14% of
group turnover. The business is well placed to take
advantage of the trend for UK utilities to outsource 
the operation and management of their assets to
companies with a record of delivering efficiency
savings and service improvement.
Overall, our focused strategy and our mantra of
efficiency matched by improved customer service
and environmental compliance continues. We
believe Kelda is well placed to deliver further
progress during the next year.
> Awareness campaign
Yorkshire Water launched a major awareness
campaign aimed at discouraging commercial
kitchens from disposing of fat or grease down
their drains. Last year the company had to
spend in excess of £3m clearing drains that 
had been blocked by solidified fats.
> Schools’ poster competition
Schoolchildren across Yorkshire were invited 
to enter a poster design competition to warn
adults and children alike of the dangers of
swimming in reservoirs. Pictured is Jade
Hodgson of Holybrook Primary School in
Bradford with her winning entry. The poster 
has now been transformed into a striking, 
full size sign for use at reservoir sites.
