 04
Chairman’s statement
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
There remains significant opportunity for growth in
our contracting business and in delivering further 
out-performance in Y orkshire Water.
There are a number of firsts for the year
under review. It was the first year of the
fourth 5 year price determination for the 
UK water industry, the first presentation 
of Kelda accounts in the IFRS format, 
and the introduction of major changes 
in the tax treatment of depreciation and 
capital allowances.
IFRS has required a restatement of the prior year
2004/05 numbers and, following the sale of our US
Aquarion operations agreed subject to regulatory
approval, the treatment of the US as a
discontinued operation. The coincidence of the
timing of the introduction of IFRS and significant
tax changes relating to investment has produced
some interesting effects on the restated prior year.
The 2004/05 numbers form a nominal restated
start point for the necessary introduction of IFRS
and, for instance, the required elimination of
discount on deferred tax significantly reduces
2004/05 profit numbers and makes the reported
movements in tax in 2005/06 appear relatively
small. The opposite is the case with significant
increases in actual tax paid in 2005/06. Therefore,
some additional analysis is made on the underlying
year to year results in the financial review.
I am very pleased to report that the company built
on a good first half to produce a strong first year
with a good overall performance. The post tax
profit number of £174.1m is almost identical to
unadjusted prior year. This broadly reflects the
underlying year to year performance. An above
budget, but below prior year result after tax from
Yorkshire Water (YW) has been offset by increased
US and Kelda Water Services (KWS) performance.
The result reflects improved operating performance
in all major operations including the US. In the
principal operating subsidiary YW, first year efficiency
targets have been out-performed and, together
with increased prices allowed under the
determination, helped to offset cost pressures
from energy and other charges. Increases at the
operating profit level were eliminated by increases
in tax charges. The first year phasing of price
increases under the 5 year determination gave a
first year regulatory budget below prior year due 
to the large impact of tax calculation changes.
The budget was bettered due to the operational 
out-performance, but the year to year movement
was as expected. The YW results are summarised
on page 94. In the meantime, the business continues
to drive forward and remains dedicated to delivering
not only improved efficiency, but increased service
standards for customers and improved regulatory
and environmental outputs. YW continues to review
its operations and has successfully implemented a
quarterly assessment scheme for all staff linked to
quarterly bonus payments.
YW achieved a further first when it received 
the Utility of the Year award for the second year 
in succession, a first for the utility industry. In
addition, it tops the Ofwat national efficiency
rating table for all water companies and was
ranked first ahead of all other water companies in 
a survey carried out by a major trade association,
British Water. There has been much comment in
the national press about water shortages in the 
UK with a particular emphasis on the south of
England. In Yorkshire, we are in a fortunate 
position with reservoir capacity at normal levels
and therefore predict no restrictions in the current
year based on worst case historic rainfall. We
continue to take pride in our achievements and 
all round performance.
John Napier
Chairman, Kelda Group plc 05
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
The revenue growth of our contract operations
business KWS was excellent with a £64m sector
gain or 129% growth. This reflects the first full
year of the Welsh Water contract. We also
reported we have been named as a preferred
bidder for Northern Ireland water operations,
which should give further growth when it comes
into operation in 2008. The KWS business has
been developed entirely by organic growth and is
now one of the prime water services contracting
businesses in the UK.
Although the US business Aquarion has been
treated as discontinued, I can report it performed
well in the year. In the prior year we incurred
exceptional costs in developing a profit improvement
plan which was fully delivered by the management.
The company also benefited from a more seasonal
rainfall pattern which increased sales. The results
were also helped by a favourable exchange rate.
A decision was announced in February that we 
had achieved a sale to Macquarie Bank, conditional
upon regulatory approval which we expect to receive
towards the end of the year. The initial 2000
investment in the US Aquarion operation gave us 
a valuable insight into the US market which did not
follow the European pattern as expected. It remains
highly fragmented with very high degrees of public
ownership. This has made suitable acquisition targets
and organic growth opportunities more limited.
The lack of opportunity to develop further in the
US at prices which could show an adequate return
to shareholders led to a decision to sell our interests.
I have already reported generally on our dedication
to efficiency and customer service improvement. 
A major part of all our activities is also directed at
improved environmental performance particularly
relating to river and bathing water quality. We
make further important contributions via the
management of our land and water catchment
areas, putting particular emphasis to a balance of
conservation and recreation. We have conservation
sites dedicated as Special Scientific Interest and
generally encourage elsewhere access and recreation
consistent with our water catchment conservation
responsibilities. We focus on children’s health in
our ‘Cool Schools’ programme encouraging the 
use of cold drinking water in schools. We have a
volunteering programme encouraging improved
standards of literacy among school children. As a
regional company we recognise we have important
regional responsibilities, and try to engender a
positive general ethos by developing company
initiatives aimed at making us one of the best water
companies in the UK.
I reported last year on changes made to the 
board with the appointment of Ed Anderson, Chief
Executive of Leeds Bradford Airport, and Kate Avery,
the Retail Distribution Director of Legal and General,
as non executive directors. I am pleased to further
report the board has settled well and that David
Salkeld has taken over the role of Senior Independent
Director with Christopher Fisher continuing as
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
As I said at the beginning, this is the first year of a
five year determination where price increases are
phased over the period. There remains significant
opportunity for further growth in our contracting
business and in delivering out-performance 
in YW. Although we have started well there will 
be significant challenges in energy costs. We are
developing a series of alternative energy generation
proposals which will help some plants be more 
self reliant. New process initiatives and improved
quality requirements work to increase energy
usage making energy conservation more difficult.
Last year we raised the final dividend to reflect 
the average performance through the previous 5
year regulatory period and to end with a dividend
growth achievement consistent with that allowed
in the regulatory determination, an annual 2% real
growth. Having increased the dividend to that level
last year we are proposing to maintain the 2% real
growth. This gives a final dividend of 21.60p to give
a full year dividend of 30.35p, a nominal increase of
4.6% on last year. The share buy back announced
last year is 50% completed as planned.
Finally, the management of the company, very
capably led by Kevin Whiteman and his team, 
are motivated and dedicated to further progress. 
It is part of our culture. Existing performance is 
not automatic and must be worked for. We 
remain indebted to all our staff who respond to
the challenges that are set for the company by 
the regulator and by our own commitment to
performance and service improvement. I would 
like to thank all staff and the board for its continuing
contribution and support, essential to maintain 
and improve our all round performance.
adjusted earnings per share increased 10.1%
to 46.9p
4.6%
46. 9p
full year dividend increased 4.6% to 30.35p 
per share
group profit before taxation from continuing
operations up 17.6% to £224.3m
£825.4m
17 .6%
group turnover from continuing operations
up 15.6% to £825.4m
