 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 6
Kelda is leading the way for customer service 
efficiency and value in UK clean and waste  
water services.
It has been another successful year for the Kelda 
Group. Our continuing strategy to focus on our 
core UK water and waste water business has 
delivered further value for our shareholders and 
with an improved service for our customers.
Group profit after tax from continuing operations 
has increased by 8.1% to £171.7m on turnover up 
6.5% to £878.9m. Basic earnings per share from 
continuing operations have increased 12.4%  
to 48.1p and it is proposed that our full year 
dividend is increased 6.3% to 32.25p per share.
Staying focused has led to another strong year for 
Yorkshire Water and we have again demonstrated 
market leading operational and customer service 
performance. In addition, KWS has continued to 
make good progress and the sale of our US 
regulated water business Aquarion means Kelda is 
now entirely focused on its UK water and waste 
water operations. All our energies are now 
directed at continuing to be clearly the best in the 
UK at what we do.
Yorkshire Water has continued to improve both  
its operational and customer service during  
a challenging year for the UK water industry 
overall. We are pleased with the progress which 
has been made through our continuing drive to 
run an efficient operation and to out-perform.
Kelda’s approach is to strike the right balance by 
providing a satisfactory return for shareholders, an 
improved service for customers and environmental 
improvements. Over recent years, this approach 
has delivered benefits for all and will continue as 
we approach the next price review in the UK.
Striking the right balance in Yorkshire
Yorkshire Water had a strong year, improving its 
efficiency and overall service levels and gaining 
external recognition as ‘Utility of the Year’ for  
the third successive year.
Both operating and capital costs are better than  
target, despite high energy prices. The company 
was again named by Ofwat as the UK’s most 
efficient water and sewerage company, with four 
‘A’ ratings for efficiency. As a result, Yorkshire 
Water remains on target to out-perform the  
rest of the current price review.
Customers are central to the company’s 
philosophy and our aim is to provide a quality of 
service which is significantly better than any other 
UK utility. In 2006/07 Yorkshire Water improved  
its score in Ofwat’s annual Overall Performance 
Assessment (OPA) for the ninth successive year.
Ofwat’s report shows that the company continues 
to deliver an improved level of service, including  
a reduction in pollution incidents and 100%  
waste water treatment works compliance. We 
have also achieved our best ever bathing beach 
performance, with seven Blue Flags awarded to 
the region’s beaches.
By applying new technology, Yorkshire Water  
also made dramatic reductions in customer 
interruptions and street excavations. For example, 
in 2006/07 the company achieved a 32% 
reduction in interruptions to supply.
Business review
Chief Executive’s review
Kevin Whiteman
Chief Executive, Kelda Group plc Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 7
The last year has also been an excellent one for 
delivering water supply security. The company met 
its leakage targets for the tenth consecutive year.
We expect a similar performance in 2007 and  
will continue to set ourselves challenging targets 
around customer service, value and compliance  
to maintain the momentum which we have 
developed over recent years.
UK clean and waste water focus
In selling our US water business Aquarion we will 
become a group focused on our UK water and 
waste water businesses.
Over recent years our strategy has been to divest 
non-core activities and many other companies in 
the sector have also followed suit.
KWS enjoyed another good year and now operates 
major clean and waste water contracts across the 
UK. With its growing track record, skills and 
experience, KWS is now established as a key player 
in the UK market for outsourced clean and waste 
water services. Our aspiration is to continue to 
grow in this developing market by further 
leveraging off our core skills.
Financial efficiency
The sale of Aquarion also allows us to undertake 
some prudent financial management and improve 
the efficiency of our balance sheet. To this end, 
we have received shareholder approval to return 
approximately £750m of capital to shareholders by 
way of a B share scheme and share consolidation.
The effect of our plans is to increase the Yorkshire 
Water net debt to approximately 60% of the 
Regulatory Capital Value, which is in line with  
the 55-65% range assumed by Ofwat in the  
2004 Final Determination.
Dividends in respect of the year ending 31 March, 
2008 will be adjusted to take account of the 
return of capital. For the current regulatory period 
to 2010, we also plan to retain our policy of 
growing dividends by 2% real, in line with 
regulatory expectations.
This structure will have the effect of bringing our 
financial efficiency in line with our operational 
efficiency, and will continue to provide Kelda  
with the right balance of risk and flexibility.
Getting the balance right
Whilst Kelda is leading the way for customer 
service, efficiency and value, we also concentrate 
on wider issues which are important to our 
employees, the environment and society.
The continued success of Kelda is thanks to the 
professionalism and dedication of our people  
and I would like to take the opportunity in this 
report to thank them for their hard work over  
the last year. It is their continuing commitment  
at all levels within our organisation which 
generates new ideas and momentum to  
deliver improvements.
We also want to improve our environmental 
performance and will go beyond compliance 
where we believe the benefits exceed the cost. 
Over the last year Yorkshire Water has commited 
to invest over £20m in renewable energy, 
including wind turbines, combined heat and 
power and hydro generation.
We recognise that we also have an important role 
to play in society and over the last year we have 
improved recreational facilities at our key reservoir 
sites, including new routes and paths for customers 
and trails suitable for wheelchair access. We also 
remain committed to volunteering, with one in 
three of our people making a real difference in  
the community.
As we begin to develop our plans for the new 
investment period and beyond, the views of  
our customers and stakeholders will be crucial  
in helping to shape our thinking. Kelda is well 
placed to continue to build on the successful 
progress of previous years.
Basic earnings per share from continuing 
operations up 12.4% to 48.1p
6.3%
Group operating profit from continuing 
operations up 7.2% to £338.2m
£878.9m
7.2%
Full year dividend increased 6.3% to 32.25p Group turnover from continuing operations up 
6.5% to £878.9m
48.1p Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 8
Kelda’s customers enjoy  
some of the highest  
service levels in the UK
Business review
