 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007  Kelda uses its expertise in water and waste water 
services to develop long term, non-regulated 
income streams which add shareholder value.
UK Service Operations comprises Kelda Water 
Services (KWS), Loop and Safe-Move. Operating 
profit increased to £10.7m (2006: £9.1m), mainly 
reflecting the continuing strong operating 
performances of existing businesses.
Kelda Water Services
KWS provides a clear focus for Kelda’s UK  
non-regulated water and waste water contract 
operations businesses. It has grown in the last five 
years from nothing to a £123m turnover business 
and has established a proven track record of 
winning contracts and delivering on its 
commitments on service, operations and financial 
returns. KWS continues to seek new growth 
opportunities in its area of operation.
2006/07 saw KWS operating across the UK through 
its subsidiaries and associate undertakings:
• Aberdeen Environmental Services (AES), which  
is 45% owned by KWS, manages four waste 
water plants in Aberdeenshire under a 30 year 
contract. Grampian Waste Water Services,  
a wholly owned subsidiary of KWS, operates  
the contract. 
• A successful second full year has been 
completed in the contract to provide waste 
water operations and maintenance services  
to Welsh Water (Dwr Cymru), involving the 
operations of 570 waste water plants and  
over 13,000km of sewer network.
• KWS is a 50% shareholder in Brey Utilities,  
which runs a 25 year contract with the Ministry 
of Defence. Delta Water Services, a wholly 
owned subsidiary of KWS, provides sub-
contracted operational and maintenance 
services to over 80% of Brey’s sites. 
• Dalriada Water Services, a joint venture, is 
currently progressing well on its building of  
four water treatment works and associated 
infrastructure following the successful  
award of Project Alpha by Water Services 
Northern Ireland.
Loop
Loop Customer Management Limited specialises in 
cost effective customer relationship management. 
The company’s main contract is to provide 
customer service support to Yorkshire Water. Over 
the last year Loop helped Yorkshire Water to achieve 
some of the best levels of customer service and the 
best performance in revenue collection in the water 
industry. Loop also made a significant contribution 
to the highly successful implementation of the new 
Yorkshire Water billing system. 
Safe-Move
Safe-Move is a non-regulated business which 
provides search information to solicitors and 
conveyancers, including information covering 
drainage and water services.
Business review
UK Service Operations
Innovation
Every time a toilet is flushed in Newport, 
Wales, few realise they’re producing power, 
protecting the environment and making 
national history too!
KWS Wales has perfected a technique that 
allows treated water to be passed through 
a heat exchanger, almost in the same way 
as a fridge works, to warm up the offices  
at Nash Waste Water Treatment Works.
The offices are no longer powered by 
liquid petroleum gas, cutting carbon 
emissions by three quarters and annual 
energy bills by 85%.
KWS Wales plans to roll out the system, 
which was designed in conjunction with 
Sheffield’s ECO Heat Pumps, to other  
large treatment works.
