 04 Kellan Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
Summary
I  Today Kellan is a profitable, acquisitive, 
ambitious and multi functional 
recruitment business.
I  A number of clear measures have been 
taken to re‑ energise Berkeley Scott Ltd 
driving improved efficiency and 
financial performance.
I  Quantica acquisition in September was in 
line with our strategy for growth and gave 
us diversification into new markets.
I  Continued focus on driving sales growth 
and creating efficiencies that will result 
in cost savings & improved margins.
I  Management team’s past experience and 
successful track record are seen as a key 
competitive advantage.
It gives me great pleasure to write my first 
review as Chief Executive since joining the 
Company in May 2007.
Kellan Group is barely recognisable as the 
business it was just two years ago. In 2006 
we were a business operating purely in the 
hospitality & leisure sector with a market 
capitalisation of under £2m. As I write this 
report we are a profitable, acquisitive, ambitious 
and multi‑functional recruitment business 
with a clear growth strategy for the future.
2007 was a pivotal period in the development 
of our Company, with the subscription by 
Tony Reeves and John Bowmer, my arrival 
as CEO and our first acquisition – that 
of Quantica plc. With the strength of our 
individual brands, we believe that we are well 
positioned to deliver strong growth both by 
making further acquisitions and through the 
development of our existing businesses.
f inancial performance
We have changed our prior September 
year end to bring it in line with Quantica’s 
December year end. Consequently, this set 
of results represents 15 months of trading 
for Berkeley Scott and the 3 months from 
Quantica post-acquisition up until the period 
end. In future, results will be based on full 
calendar years. Given the relatively late 
timing of the Quantica acquisition and the 
re‑structuring activity that has occurred in 
the Group, the 2007 results presented do 
not yet show the turnaround in bottom line 
profitability that we anticipate in 2008. 
Notwithstanding these comments, there has 
been significant progress made in our trading 
divisions, most notably Berkeley Scott.
operating Review by Business unit 
Berkeley Scott ltd
Since the injection of funds early last year, a 
great deal of change has been implemented 
at our hospitality and leisure recruitment 
business. In the first few months under new 
management we: 
I  undertook an analysis of the strengths 
and weaknesses of the business;
I   spent much time with our people and our 
customers, understanding its perception 
both internally and in the marketplace; 
I   set a new strategic direction for the 
business, as a result of which we pulled 
out of non‑ core geographies and 
businesses; and
I   restructured the operations, rationalised 
our cost base and introduced a sales culture. 
These measures continue to re‑energise the 
Company, driving improved efficiency and 
financial performance. The net effect is a 
much more robust business with an exciting 
growth path.
The key goal for Berkeley Scott during 2007 
was to return it to profitability. This has meant 
a number of changes within the business.
1. Implementation of a business 
rationalisation programme
We have refocused our resources to ensure 
greater focus and penetration in a smaller 
number of offerings, locations and businesses. 
Consequently we closed down our ‘Solutions’ 
business which had delivered recruitment 
related services to clients. We also decided 
to focus our recruitment business into higher 
potential and strategically important geographies 
and so closed offices in Cardiff, Edinburgh 
and Cambridge. Finally, in order to clarify 
our service offering, we discontinued our 
executive search brand ISIS. As a result of 
these decisions, our strategy in hospitality 
recruitment is now supported by a single 
market offering, in locations with strong 
growth prospects.
will Coker Chief Financial Officer
John Rose Chief Executive Officer
Business review: Chief Executive Officers’s report   Qu ANTICA sEARCh & sELECTION 
AND BENTLEY MOTORs LIMITED
 “ QuANTICA HAvE pRovIdEd A pRofESSIoNAl SERvICE ANd 
HAvE THE RESpECT ANd TRu ST of THE SENIo R MANAGERS 
IN THE ENGINEERING dEpARTMENT.”
 Neil Shone 
 Personnel Operations Manager 
 Bentley Motors Limited
Bentley Motors Limited is dedicated 
to making responsive and powerful 
Grand Tourers capable of crossing 
continents at pace and drive in 
refined style and comfort. Since the 
acquisition by Volkswagen AG in 
1998 Bentley has taken the giant 
leap from a small, honoured yet 
historical automotive manufacturer, 
to a modern, dynamic and influential 
brand within the automotive industry. 
To support this growth, Bentley 
needed to recruit key individuals 
who could thrive in a challenging 
environment and match its ambition.
The challenge given to Quantica 
Search & Selection was to identify 
and source the top Engineering 
individuals in the automotive 
business, with the objective of 
providing Bentley with the talent 
to develop its engineering capability 
and continue to advance its 
engineering programmes.
Through an in‑ depth attraction, 
sourcing and filtering strategy, 
Quantica managed to successfully 
recruit a variety of Senior Engineers 
into the business. The search 
strategy covered the automotive 
industry and included focused 
headhunting into similar OEM and 
first-tier manufacturers across the 
UK. There was also a marketing 
strategy whereby attractive adverts 
were placed in the main industry 
publications and across a number 
of relevant websites, as well as 
seeking recommendations from 
a network of ‘trusted’ candidates.
Neil Shone, Personnel Operations 
Manager from Bentley Motors 
Limited said, “We have been 
working in partnership with 
Quantica Search & Selection for 
the past ten years. We have given 
them some challenging briefs and 
they have an excellent track record 
of sourcing a number of successful 
candidates across the full range 
of our Engineering disciplines from 
Engineering Managers through to 
Specialist Engineers. These are 
incredibly difficult people to recruit 
and thanks to Quantica, their excellent 
team and the great people they have 
recruited for us, they have enabled 
Bentley to deliver some of their key 
projects on time. They have provided 
a professional service and have 
the respect and trust of the 
senior managers in the 
Engineering department.”
Kellan Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 05 06 Kellan Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
Business review: Chief Executive Officer’s report
2. Streamlining of management team
In December 2007 we announced the 
appointment of Mark Darby as Managing 
Director of Berkeley Scott. Mark is an 
outstanding leader of people and has quickly 
stamped his personality on the business. 
He is continuing to drive the strategy we 
spent 2007 building and I am confident that 
he and his team will continue to take the 
business forward.
3. Adoption of a strategy of 
‘higher margin, higher value’
Moving up the value chain has been key to 
our turnaround. Historically the Company has 
placed candidates into low value, low wage 
roles. We have worked hard, with excellent 
results, to refocus our consultants to place 
more senior candidates into higher value 
roles and into capturing the pricing potential 
of Berkeley Scott’s premium brand. The early 
success of this strategy can be seen above.
4. Introduction of a strong sales culture
The appointment of Alistair Rennie as 
Sales Director has already had a huge effect 
on the sales culture of the business and he 
has driven the ‘higher margin, higher value’ 
strategy with great success. To further support 
the strategy we have introduced a new bonus 
scheme across the business which encourages 
and rewards higher fee performance. We have 
also significantly adapted our front office 
recruitment systems to provide the necessary 
tools and management information.
5. Staff development and retention
Our investment in internal recruitment, 
training and career development has ensured 
much greater control over our staff turnover. 
The Group’s rapid emergence into the spotlight 
since John and Tony’s investment, coupled 
with the strong brand which already existed, 
has started to create a far stronger employer 
brand. Additionally, we are hopeful that the 
confidence of our staff in the future of the 
business has grown, along with the career 
options for them as employees of a bigger, 
stronger Group.
Given the 15 month period, prior year 
comparisons are difficult but it is worth 
focusing on the October to December quarter 
for 2007 and comparing it with the same period 
for 2006. The key metrics are shown on page 
8. This turnaround is absolute testament to the 
support of the management team and staff at 
Berkeley Scott, the way they have embraced 
change and their desire to be part of a success 
story. We are confident of a bright future 
for Berkeley Scott.
Quantica Group
Our first acquisition, that of Quantica plc 
in September 2007 was completely in line 
with our strategy for growth and fitted our 
criteria perfectly: Strong brand names allowing 
us diversification into new markets, high 
calibre management and staff and excellent 
potential for growth and greater scale. 
Quantica Search & Selection 
Quantica Search & Selection have established 
a strong position in the market place, particularly 
within the manufacturing, retail and legal 
sectors. 2007 was a positive year for the 
business with significant growth at both 
revenue and contribution levels. Historically 
the business was located in non‑ city centre 
locations, however the last two quarters of 
2007 saw some heavy investment into the 
business with the opening of two new offices 
in Manchester and Leeds city centres. 
Consequently, we have focused on attracting 
and recruiting experienced consultants into 
the business and we are delighted with the 
calibre of the individuals attracted to working 
for us by our strong brand.
We are confident that this focus on recruiting 
experienced consultants will enable us to 
widen our client base and further establish 
our brand reputation in 2008.
Historically the business has been 100% 
permanent recruitment but towards the end 
of 2007 we moved into the contract arena. 
We will continue to focus on and grow this 
revenue stream in 2008. In addition, last year 
we extended our retail offering into Europe 
where we believe the retail market is more 
stable. This will also be a continued focus 
in 2008.
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
1 2 3 4 5 6
Series1
Dec
2006
Jan
2007
Feb
2007
Mar
2007
Apr
2007
May
2007
Jun
2007
Jul
2007
Aug
2007
Sep
2007
Oct
2007
Nov
2007
Dec
2007
Jan
2008
-15
-10
-5
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q5
 0
5
10
15
20
(1)  Prior period quarter adjusted to only include 
existing businesses at 31 December 2007.
(2)  Revenue less the cost of wages and fees 
paid to temporary workers and contractors.
Berkeley Scott limited like ‑for ‑like
(1)
 net fee income
(2)
 growth on the same quarter of prior year
+18%
TOTAL INCREASE IN THE LAST 
QUARTER OF 2007 ON THE 
LAST QuARTER OF 2006   Qu ANTICA TEChNOLOg Y AND DLA PIPER
 “ w o RKING w ITH QuANTICA o N ou R RECENT RECRu ITMENT CAMpAIGN 
w AS AN u NExp ECTEd pl EASu RE. THEy u Nd ERSTood ANd AdApTEd 
To ou R SpECIf IC NEEd S, THEy w ERE Co MMERCIAlly fl Ex IBl E ANd 
HAd A GREAT TEAM of pEoplE RuNNING THINGS BEHINd THE SCENES .”
 Jed Lowe  
 Head of Development and Support 
 DLA Piper
DLA Piper in the uK provides full 
service legal advice from London 
and its major UK centres. They 
are the 5th largest legal services 
organisation in the UK, with over 
2800 people including over 300 
partners. They know that in order 
for their advice and solutions to 
be effective, they need to engage 
completely with their clients to fully 
understand their businesses. 
Quantica have been working with 
DLA for some 5 years and have 
had an excellent relationship with 
Jed Lowe (Head of Development and 
Support) and a good understanding 
of the type of people they require 
in their organisation. An example of 
this is a recent retained advertising 
campaign and interview evening.
Both parties agreed that a 
recruitment evening was the best 
solution to attract the necessary 
candidates for 18 IT vacancies. 
The first step was for Quantica to 
run a marketing campaign in local 
press and computer magazines, 
advertising the up and coming 
event. The response was immense 
and Quantica invested a great deal 
of time screening all the CVs and 
inviting 46 of the most suitable 
candidates along to the evening.
The evening began with DLA ’s Global 
IT Director presenting the Company 
history and vision to the potential 
recruits. This gave them a thorough 
in‑ site into the business and their plans 
for the future. The candidates then had 
a 15 minute interview with one of the 
ten IT managers that attended the 
evening. The 46 were then short listed 
down to 20 candidates, all were invited 
back the following week for a more 
thorough interview. 
Following these interviews 18 offers 
were made and 17 candidates 
accepted the positions making it the 
most successful recruitment event 
that DLA had ever undertaken.
“Working with Quantica on our 
recent recruitment campaign was 
an unexpected pleasure. They 
understood and adapted to 
our specific needs, they were 
commercially flexible and had 
a great team of people running 
things behind the scenes.
That being the case what really 
proves success are the results. The 
Quantica campaign managed to fill 
all vacancies with remarkably high 
calibre individuals who fit in well 
with the culture and nature of my 
department. We are already reaping 
the benefits of this with none of the 
usual issues of getting new starters 
up to speed and effective.”
Jed Lowe
Head of Development and Support
DLA Piper
Kellan Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 07
Courtesy of Carey Jones 08 Kellan Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
Quantica Technology
Technology places high calibre IT 
professionals, predominantly in the North 
of England. It is a very profitable business 
but at only 10% of the Group’s Net Fee 
Income (revenues less the cost of wages 
and fees paid to temporary workers and 
contractors: “NFI”), it is still a small business 
in a large market giving significant scope for 
growth from a strong platform. 2007 saw 
the start of a strategy for growth with a 
significant headcount increase at its office 
in Elland and crucially, the opening of its first 
satellite office: Leeds was opened in July and 
has already delivered above management 
expectation and is trading profitably. 
Consistency of delivery is critical in this sector 
and Quantica Technology’s well established 
record of repeat business is most impressive. 
Added to its customer base and strong local 
brand is an outstanding management team, 
all possessing extensive market experience. 
Technology have commenced 2008 with a 
contractor base 35% higher than at the start 
of 2007 and we are very confident about their 
continued growth potential.
RK Accountancy
We see much growth potential in this 
business which specialises in the temporary 
and permanent clerical to junior management 
accountancy markets. Currently operating out 
of seven locations, the business has delivered 
strong organic growth in 2007 but is now ready 
to move into the next stage of its development. 
A minimum of two new offices are planned 
for 2008 with Warrington due to open in May. 
Additionally, and to assist this platform of 
growth, a large IT investment into both the 
infrastructure and platform is being made 
during the first half of this year.
RK Supply Chain
The London, Manchester and Toronto based 
supply chain recruitment business operates in 
a fast growing niche sector of the recruitment 
market. We specialise in management positions 
within the procurement, supply chain, planning 
& logistics industry. The market remains 
strong with a high demand across all sectors.
In quarters 3 and 4 of 2007 we invested 
heavily in the London operation and recruited 
in excess of 15 new team members. We 
benefited from some very early successes 
from these new recruiters and our revenue 
per head in quarters 3 and 4 made significant 
improvements on the previous 2 quarters. We 
fully expect to see this success continue and 
consider 2008 as a year of opportunity for 
RK Supply Chain with the main focus being 
on the continued development of the new 
team members to enable them to reach 
their full potential.
RK Search
RK‘s niche Search businesses go into 2008 
with a strong platform for growth. 
Robinson Keane has always had a well 
diversified client base at board level across 
most sectors of commerce and industry and 
is particularly strong on CEO, Chairman and 
N.E.D. assignments. In 2007 it has also made 
progress in developing its presence in the 
private/public sector interface where it has 
made a number of high profile appointments. 
The regional strength of the Robinson Keane 
brand coupled with an increasingly experienced 
consultancy team and a rigorous in‑house 
research process has ensured a very strong 
business pipeline going into 2008.
Within this business, RK’s niche search 
offering enjoyed significant growth in 2007. 
They deal largely with multinational corporations 
at senior management level in relation to 
scarce skill sets which directly impact clients’ 
bottom line performance. Increased fee earner 
headcount in the second half of 2007 
is expected to generate further growth 
in fee income in 2008. 
Employees 
There is no single success factor more 
critical than attracting, developing and 
retaining good people. Kellan Group’s beliefs 
are centred around investing in its people and 
recognising Learning and Development as a 
key contributor to the success of individuals 
and the profitability of the business as a 
whole. Our objectives are that employees 
at all levels receive structured job‑related 
training to enable them to competently perform 
their duties and meet the organisation’s short, 
medium and long term goals. 
Business review: Chief Executive Officer’s report
    October–December  October–December 
    2006  2007
Adjusted EBITDA
(1)
    (£122,000)  £172,000
Average permanent fee    £3,018  £3,766
Average permanent fee earned  
as a % of salary candidate placed   12.7%  15.5%
Consultants Costs  
as % of NFI    65%  51%
Number of permanent 
placements made    458  420
Permanent NFI    £1,148,000  £1,423,000
Berkeley Scott Limited key financials last quarter 2007 compared to last quarter of 2006
(1)  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation adjusted to add back non‑recurring 
costs and share based payment charges. By late 2006, The Lowry had proved 
itself a huge success and had 
exceeded all forecasts and plans. 
We therefore needed to appoint an 
exceptional Chairman to help take 
The Lowry to the next level, both in 
terms of its offering and its national 
and international recognition.
We needed someone who shared the 
vision of what The Lowry was about – 
raising the cultural profile of the region 
and contributing to the regeneration 
of the Salford area. We also needed 
someone with authority and credibility 
with the movers and shakers in London 
and the South. All in all, we had a very 
unusual and demanding specification.
Robinson Keane spent a lot of time 
in the early stages of the assignment 
really getting to grips with our 
requirements, both in terms of person 
specification and cultural fit. From 
the first meeting, they gave me 
confidence that they would deliver.
They then undertook an extensive 
headhunting campaign, sourcing and 
targeting suitable people in the fields 
of both the arts and regeneration, 
before presenting us with a very strong 
shortlist, complete with extensive and 
in-depth candidate profiles.
Not surprisingly, the shortlisted 
candidates all demonstrated a 
thorough understanding of our 
vision and our expectations from an 
incoming Chairman, reinforcing my 
view that Robinson Keane’s briefing 
of candidates had been of a very 
high standard and therefore extremely 
effective. Needless to say, a successful 
appointment was made from the 
final shortlist and our new Chairman 
has proved to be an absolute star!
Throughout the assignment, 
Robinson Keane gave us regular, 
concise and appropriate updates 
on progress and administered the 
whole process very efficiently.
I would certainly have no hesitation 
in recommending Robinson Keane 
to other organisations seeking an 
outstanding Chairman.
Julia Fawcett
Chief Executive
The Lowry
 ROBINsON KEANE AND ThE L OwRY
 “ Ro BINSo N KEANE SpENT A lo T of TIME IN THE EARly STAGES of THE 
ASSIGNMENT REAlly GETTING To GRIpS w ITH ou R REQuIREMENTS, 
Bo TH IN TERMS of p ERSo N SpECIf ICATIo N ANd Cul Tu RAl f IT. 
fR o M THE f IRST MEETING, THEy GAvE ME Co Nf IdENCE THAT THEy 
would dElIvER.”
 Julia Fawcett 
 Chief Executive 
 The Lowry
Kellan Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 09 10 Kellan Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
Employees continued
To this end we are investing heavily in our 
people through the creation of a dedicated 
internal recruitment team and the growth 
of our learning and development capabilities. 
Through this HR capability, we will focus 
extensively on the entire life cycle of our staff 
from recruitment through to on‑ boarding, 
training, management and leadership 
development and ultimately the retention 
of what we hope will be some of the best 
talent in the industry.
What is clear is that within Kellan Group there 
exists some of the most impressive leaders 
and consultants I have seen in my 20+ years 
in this industry. It is crucial that we give them, 
and others who will join us, all the tools, 
career opportunities, development, recognition, 
reward and culture they will need to succeed.
Name change
In February 2008 we changed our name to 
the Kellan Group plc. Kellan is the Celtic word 
for ‘powerful’. The name was chosen after 
running an internal Group competition. Our 
staff were asked to suggest a name for the 
new parent company with an explanation for 
their choice. The winning entry was selected 
by the Kellan Group Main Board with the 
winner, Arisa Cairns (pictured to the left) 
enjoying a family holiday, fully paid for by 
the Company. 
STRATEGIC REvIEw
Strategy for growth 
Since joining the Group, the Board and I have 
been focusing on driving sales growth as well 
as creating efficiencies that will ultimately 
generate cost savings and improved margins 
for the Group. We are still on track with our 
expansion plans through organic growth and 
the acquisition of complementary recruitment 
consultancy businesses which will allow 
us to diversify into new markets. 
Kellan Group benefits from a strong 
management team with extensive industry 
experience. Our Co‑ Chairmen have a combined 
65 years of recruitment industry experience 
and more critically, given the Group’s strategy, 
they have both successfully undertaken 
numerous mergers and acquisitions including 
several of the largest deals ever undertaken 
in the industry. As CEO of Hudson UK 
and Ireland, I presided over an 800 person 
business which demonstrated a significant 
profit growth, delivering a six fold increase 
in operating profit in a 3 year period. Will Coker 
possesses an excellent track record, qualifying 
with Price Waterhouse followed by a number 
of years in blue‑ chip environments. He joined 
Kellan in 2005, shortly after its IPO 
as Berkeley Scott Group. 
We see the management team’s past 
experience and successful track record 
as a key competitive advantage and crucial 
in being able to deliver ever‑increasing value 
to our businesses and to our shareholders.
Business review: Chief Executive Officer’s report
Arisa Cairns based in RK Altrincham
winner of the BSG name change competition.  RK ACCOu NTANCY AND MYTRAvEL
 “ RK ACCou NTANCy HAv E A full u NdERSTANdING of THE Cul TuRE 
ANd pERSo NAl ITy f IT REQu IREd fo R ou R o RGANISATIo N. THEy 
HAv E Alw Ay S BEEN pRo ACTIv E, SHow ENTHu SIASM ANd off ER 
AN Eff ICIENT ANd Ho NEST SERv ICE. oN A pERSo NAl l Ev El I HAv E 
Alw AyS fouNd THE CoNSul TANTS To BE polITE , pRofESSIoNAl ANd 
woRK w ITH A f IRST Cl ASS wo RK ETHIC. I Alw AyS f EEl w E ARE TREATEd 
w ITH Top p RIo RITy ANd GIvEN A fIRST ClASS SERvICE .”
 Catherine hobden 
 Co‑ ordinator 
 MyTravel
MyTravel is a strong household name 
and every year MyTravel provides 
thousands of customers with holidays, 
city breaks and flights from over 20 uK 
airports to hundreds of world‑wide 
destinations as well as cruises too. 
MyTravel has grown considerably over 
the last few years and in 2007 merged 
with Thomas Cook to increase strength 
in the market place. To assist with 
these developments MyTravel Airways 
needed to bring onboard a consultancy 
who would relish the challenge and 
support them thought this period of 
change which affected their finance 
function and headcount. The 
relationship with RK Accountancy 
has developed considerably over the 
last few years as MyTravel Airways’ 
needs have increased resulting in 
the two parties working hand‑ in‑ hand 
together on vacancies at all levels. 
Regardless of MyTravel Airways 
requirements, RK Accountancy were 
required to step up to the plate and 
provide an efficient and effective 
service whether it be clerical or 
senior on both a temporary and 
permanent basis.
Kellan Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 11
