 02 Kellan Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
Summary
I  Berkeley Scott Group plc changed its name 
to Kellan Group plc to distinguish itself from 
the hospitality and leisure recruitment brand.
I  Rationalising of Kellan’s cost base for 
profitability has been a key priority since 
January 2007.
I  Kellan has embarked upon growing 
its brands faster than the market.
I  We anticipate a positive performance 
for the year.
I  We continue to strive to build a successful 
Company that will be a significant force 
in the industry.
There has been great progress in the 
Kellan Group plc, formerly Berkeley Scott 
Group plc, since our last report. Most notably 
we have changed the name of the Group to 
distinguish the publicly listed holding Company 
from its trading brands. In addition we’ve 
appointed an outstanding CEO for the Group, 
acquired two leading recruitment brands, 
rationalised the cost base to increase 
profitability and established our strategic 
priorities for future growth. 
Kellan Group plc became the new name for 
Berkeley Scott Group plc on 18 February 2008. 
The Berkeley Scott name will remain for Kellan’s 
hospitality and leisure recruitment business 
where it is well known and regarded in those 
markets. It now sits alongside Kellan’s other 
separately branded, specialist staffing entities 
in such sectors as technology, retail, finance 
and accounting, legal, niche manufacturing 
and supply chain.
Rationalising Kellan Group’s cost base to 
increase profitability was our first task when 
we refinanced the Company in January 2007. 
Making Berkeley Scott profitable and cash 
generative as quickly as possible and restoring 
its position as a pre‑ eminent hospitality and 
leisure recruitment brand was quickly achieved. 
Branch rationalisation, general cost cutting, 
improved product offerings and strengthening 
the sales culture through the business helped 
achieve this goal, along with the appointment 
of a very experienced CEO, John Rose, 
who joined in May 2007 from Hudson UK 
and Ireland. 
We are now embarked on growing the Kellan 
brands faster than the market. Our longer term 
ambitions are to grow Kellan organically and 
by acquisition into a broad based stable of 
notable, well respected brands in temporary 
and permanent specialist staffing. To this end 
Kellan acquired fellow AIM listed Quantica plc 
in September 2007 for £30.3m. Quantica has 
excellent brands in information technology, 
finance and accounting, search and selection 
and supply chain. We believe these brands 
can be developed to produce excellent 
growth and profits.
Key to our success will be the hard work 
and talent of the people of Kellan. Our aim is 
to develop and promote existing colleagues 
and to bring in gifted people from the outside 
when necessary. We have discussed our 
key CEO hire, who has worked hard on 
the transformation of Berkeley Scott including 
the promotion of an existing manager to 
Managing Director as well as the appointment 
of several managers from the outside. Quantica 
too has many accomplished people who have 
responded well to their new challenges. 
We thank everyone for their outstanding 
contributions to our 2007 results and look 
forward to our continuing success.
We are pleased that these results reflect 
our stated strategic, operational and financial 
aims for 2007 and are happy to report that 
further significant progress has been made 
in the first quarter of 2008. Kellan is performing 
very well. We are not seeing any impact from 
the turmoil in the world economy on trading 
to date. We are optimistic for a positive 
performance in the remainder of the year.
We will continue to strive to build a successful, 
durable Company that will be a significant 
force in the staffing industry in the next few 
years. We thank you, our shareholders, 
for your past support and look forward 
to a bright future.
Tony Reeves John Bowmer
Co‑Chairman Co‑Chairman
28 March 2008 28 March 2008
Co‑Chairmans’ statement
John Bowmer Non‑Executive Co‑Chairman
Tony Reeves Non‑Executive Co‑Chairman   BERKELEY sCOTT AND 
LOCh FYNE REsTA uRANTs
 “ I HAvE HAd THE plEASuRE of wo RKING w ITH BERKEl Ey SCoTT 
foR THE p AST Two yEARS Now ANd I would RECoMMENd THEIR 
SERvICES To ANy fu Tu RE Cl IENT. THEy ARE THoRouGH IN THEIR 
AppRo ACH ANd vER y EffICIENT IN ARRANGING INTERvIEwS . THEy 
ABSoluTEly uNdERSTANd ouR vER y SpECIfIC BRIEf So No TIME IS 
w ASTEd INTERvIEwING uNSuITABlE CANdId ATES. IN My opINIoN 
BERKEl Ey S Co TT HAv E pl Ay Ed A SIGNIf ICANT Rol E IN Sou RCING 
THE pEoplE wHo HA vE HElpEd BuIld l oCH fyNE RESTA uRANTS 
INTo THE uK’S lEAdING SEAfood RESTA uRANT CHAIN.”
 Jason Thomas 
 Regional Director 
 Loch Fyne Restaurants
Loch Fyne Restaurants started 
with one inspirational idea – to grow 
oysters in the clear, fertile waters of 
Loch Fyne – and has developed into 
a cluster of businesses whose success 
is built on an honest approach to 
superb quality food.
All Loch Fyne Restaurants abide by 
the guiding environmental principles 
established by John Noble and 
Andy Lane at the outset. The 
companies work together to ensure 
that only the very best produce – 
farmed and fished to the highest 
quality and environmental standards 
– reaches the kitchens and plates 
of their customers.
In line with this philosophy, recruiting 
and retaining the very best talent in 
the industry is critical to the success 
of Loch Fyne Restaurants. Some two 
years ago Loch Fyne Restaurants 
started working with Berkeley Scott 
because of their reputation for being 
market leaders in the hospitality and 
leisure recruitment sector. Both 
companies enjoyed success. 
Berkeley Scott found that working 
with such a strong and recognised 
brand in the ever competitive 
restaurant sector made attracting 
great candidates so much easier. 
More recently, Berkeley Scott has 
introduced an account management 
structure into Loch Fyne Restaurants. 
The account is handled by one person 
within Berkeley Scott who understands 
the brand inside and out. They act 
as a filter to ensure that all the CVs 
and candidates presented to 
Loch Fyne Restaurants meet their 
strict criteria. The benefits to the 
client are plenty: one point of contact 
who knows everything about their 
business, consistency in CVs 
and candidate screening, quick and 
efficient processes agreed by both 
businesses and most importantly the 
recruitment of the best candidates 
in the market within the tight 
timescales the restaurant chain 
needs to work within.
Jason Thomas
Regional Director
Loch Fyne Restaurants
Kellan Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 03
