 Kemin Resources Plc  Annual Report 2014 02
Chairman’s statement 
//Strategic report
The Company has continued to develop its significant deposits  
against the background of falling prices.
2014 was a challenging year for the development 
of Kemin’s molybdenum and tungsten deposits in 
Drozhilovskoye and Smirnovskoye which are both  
located in north west Kazakhstan.
Molybdenum, which is primarily used for strengthening 
steel, has been hit hard by the lower demand for 
steelmaking by China and other large steel producers.  
At the beginning of 2013 the price for molybdenum 
oxide was $26,400/t and this had fallen to $22,500/t  
by the commencement of 2014. The price subsequently  
fell further in early May 2015 to $17,500/t, a reduction  
of 34% since January 2013. 
Similarly, from January 2013 to May 2015 the price  
of ferro tungsten has also fallen by 22%. Although both 
Kemin’s deposits are predominately molybdenum ore,  
the potential tungsten concentrates revenues add  
a major positive financial impact to the deposits.
Importantly, both Drozhilovskoye and Smirnovskoye 
have molybdenum grades that are superior to many 
other mines and the tungsten credits strengthen the 
economics of the deposits further. In addition to this 
the Company will also benefit from the support of the 
Kazakhstan government as both Drozhilovskoye and 
Smirnovskoye are included within its State Programme  
on Accelerated Industrial Innovative Development 
(SPAIID). We expect that this will lead to assistance in the 
construction of infrastructure and aid to the Company  
with tax related incentives.
The Board expects molybdenum and tungsten prices  
to recover in the longer term given an improvement in 
the world economy. Overall we remain confident that 
the demand for high quality steels using molybdenum 
will continue and much of that demand will come from 
China, a neighbour and trading partner of Kazakhstan. 
Kazakhstan and China already have well established 
railway networks that link both countries for cross  
border trading.
In order to gauge the options available to the Company, 
the Board has opened preliminary discussions directly 
with potential partners in China on how best to 
develop the projects and how to access markets for 
our molybdenum and tungsten concentrates. This 
work remains ongoing and further updates will be 
reported as progress is made. The Board has noted some 
encouraging early interest from Chinese participants in 
the molybdenum and tungsten industries.
The Board and I agree that the Drozhilovskoye and 
Smirnovskoye deposits provide a very compelling 
development opportunity with good grades, simple  
low strip ratio open-pit mining and we are well located 
to the largest market for molybdenum and tungsten 
concentrates. The drop in the molybdenum and tungsten 
prices has encouraged us to make changes to the cut-off 
grade we use in estimating our JORC resources, with a 
view to how the projects may be developed. However,  
our overall view of these projects has not wavered. 
Drozhilovskoye and Smirnovskoye are exceptional, long 
life deposits with significant exploration potential beyond 
the reserves and resources already identified. The Board is 
keen to progress the projects and is working closely with 
the Government of Kazakhstan on the financing  
of a potential trial 1Mtpa mine at Drozhilovskoye.
Finally I would like to thank our staff and consultants 
who have worked diligently in progressing the technical 
work required to advance both the Drozhilovskoye and 
Smirnovskoye deposits.
Kanat Assaubayev
Chairman
18 June 2015
Government support
1Mtpa
We are working closely with the 
Government of Kazakhstan on 
the financing of a potential trial 
1Mtpa mine at Drozhilovskoye.
