 Kemin Resources Plc  Annual Report 2014 03
Strategic report  01-05
Governance 06-11
Financial statements 12-32
Chief Executive Officer’s report 
2014 saw major falls in the demand for mineral resources relating to the  
steel industry including molybdenum and tungsten, and the Company  
is reviewing its strategy based on the changing parameters.
Background to strategic review
A strategic review was considered prudent during a  
time of falling demand for steel and the inevitable fall 
in the price of the commodities used to make speciality 
steels. The outcome of the strategic review resulted in a 
revision of Kemin’s reserve and resource estimates using 
a higher cut-off grade. This was to ensure that the reserve 
and resource base provided a robust financial outcome at 
a time of low commodity prices. In addition the cost base 
of the Company was reviewed to conserve cash resources 
during this developmental stage of the Company.
The intention of the strategic review was to prepare 
a reserve and resource statement that would ensure 
both deposits would remain profitable even with low 
commodity prices well into the future. This strategy is 
supported by known exploration targets that indicate 
that with more drilling, significant resources and 
ultimately reserves can be added to the current reserves 
and resources. This will extend the life of both deposits 
well beyond the current resource base.
Both the Drozhilovskoye and Smirnovskoye deposits are 
large, near surface ore bodies that allow simple open-pit 
mining at low strip ratios. The Drozhilovskoye deposit is 
intended to be developed well before the Smirnovskoye 
deposit due to the fact that the molybdenum and 
tungsten grades are much higher than those at 
Smirnovskoye plus there is significantly more drilling  
and metallurgical test work completed at Drozhilovskoye.
The impact of the strategic review has delayed  
the development timeline but this work was critical  
in ensuring a robust development strategy was put  
in place. The impact of remodelling the geological data  
of both deposits, to reflect lower commodity prices 
and the development of supporting mining options 
has delayed the development timeline by nine months. 
Although it is disappointing, this work has been crucial  
in ensuring Kemin develops the deposits to maximise  
the value for its shareholders in a time of expected  
lower prices for molybdenum and tungsten.
As part of the finalisation of the strategic review, Kemin 
engaged Venmyn Deloitte to prepare an independent 
Competent Persons Report (CPR) for the Drozhilovskoye 
and the Smirnovskoye deposits. As part of this process 
Venmyn Deloitte also assisted Kemin, by coordinating 
with both Datamine Pty and Eurus Mineral Consultants, 
with studies relating to the mine plan and metallurgical 
test work. Datamine Pty provided investigations into the 
optimum mining scenarios for both the Drozhilovskoye 
and Smirnovskoye deposits aimed at maximising Net 
Present Values. Eurus Mineral Consultants completed an 
independent review of the metallurgical test work and 
proposed flow sheets for the mineral processing plants  
at Drozhilovskoye. 
Mineral resource statement
The full CPR is currently in the final stages and is  
expected to be published in Q3 2015. This is 
expected to reclassify the resources under the 
JORC (2012) code from the previously reported 
GKZ classifications reproduced below.
The Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration 
Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves (“the 
JORC code”) is a professional code of practice that sets 
minimum standards for Public Reporting of minerals 
Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves. 
The JORC code provides a mandatory system for the 
classification of minerals Exploration Results, Mineral 
Resources and Ore Reserves according to the levels  
of confidence in geological knowledge and the technical  
and economic considerations in Public Reports. 
 
The current edition of the code was published in 2012, 
and moving to a JORC based classification is expected  
to have a number of benefits and is expected to define 
much more clearly the targets to be developed.
GKZ resources for the Drozhilovskoye and Smirnovskoye 
deposits at the cut-off grade of 0.05% Mo were:
GKZ resources
    Molybdenum  Tungsten
 Russian Ore Molybdenum metal Tungsten Metal
 reserve tonnes grade  equivalent Grade Equivalent
Deposit classification Mt %  Kt % Kt
Drozhilovskoye C1 139.8 0.188 262.9 0.046 64.3
Smirnovoskoye C1 170.5 0.130 221.7 0.010 17.1
Total C1 310.3 0.156 484.6 0.026 81.4
When Kemin’s deposits are benchmarked against other 
molybdenum mining operations, our grades and large 
tonnages are superior to many other existing open-pit 
molybdenum mines and deposits that are highlighted  
for future development. Kemin Resources Plc  Annual Report 2014 04
Chief Executive Officer’s report (continued)
//Strategic report
Local support for our projects
During 2014, Kemin was also able to announce that  
its Smirnovskoye and Drozhilovskoye deposits have  
been approved for inclusion in the State Programme  
on Accelerated Industrial Innovative Development 
(SPAIID). These assets have been identified as strategic 
mineral developments for Kazakhstan, and the 
Government will:
• build infrastructure to connect Kemin’s planned 
processing plant to the Bukhara-Ural gas pipeline, 
and will provide electricity, water and transportation 
networks;
• ensure regulatory approvals are issued in a timely 
manner. Additionally, the Government of Kazakhstan 
has enacted broad legislative changes that will further 
increase state support for key mineral development 
projects including:
• income tax exemptions for 10 years;
• land tax exemptions for 10 years;
• property tax exemptions for 8 years;
• reimbursement of up to 30% of project capital 
expenditure;
• guarantees to keep tax rates and state tariffs 
unchanged for a period of 10 years;
• policies to allow investors to hire foreign staff  
for the period of construction without applying  
labour quotas.
The impact of this support by the Government  
of Kazakhstan and the proposed legislative changes 
has further strengthened the investment case for 
both deposits and considerably reduced the risk, and 
should aid the Company in receiving the necessary 
development permits in a timely manner. This is  
an important step forward for both deposits 
development prospects.
Looking forward
Following the conclusion of the CPR, management 
expects to commission a definitive feasibility study  
for the Drozhilovskoye deposit initially, and anticipates 
that this will be completed during early 2016.
With the support of the Government of Kazakhstan, 
the Board is continuing to review the option of a pilot 
processing plant of 1 million tonne pa (Mtpa) capacity 
as an initial early, quick start, investment option prior to 
the major investment required at the 5Mtpa operation at 
Drozhilovskoye and then Smirnovskoye. 
 
This provides a unique opportunity to:
• test and improve enrichment technology;
• establish a customer base;
• define an efficient logistics chain to customers.
These discussions, whilst ongoing, were delayed during 
2014 as part of the strategic review to ensure that a 
robust development scenario is in place for the 1 Mtpa 
prior to any finalisation of financing.
China offers a variety of options to Kemin in terms  
of off-take agreements, potential joint venture partners 
who wish to supplement their access to molybdenum 
and tungsten concentrates, and metals and mining 
companies producing molybdenum and tungsten.  
At this early stage Kemin has conducted an initial 
scoping study to better understand its options in  
China and the interest of Chinese companies in doing 
business with Kemin. Kemin has been pleased by the 
initial interest shown by Chinese companies and looks 
forward to further discussions in due course.
Fundraising
£2.05m
In June 2014, the Company 
completed a fundraising  
of £2.05m, gross, via a  
placement of 22,804,310  
new ordinary shares.
Timeframe & Development
Event Timing
Publication of CPR Q3 2015
Updated feasibility study completion Q1 2016
Kazakhstan development bank funding  
stage 1 Drozhilovskoye Q1 2016
First stage construction complete Late 2016
Production starts Early 2017
Raise funds stage 2 & 3 expansions  
at Drozhilovskoye Late 2017
Feasibility study complete for development  
of Smirnovskoye Late 2016
Funding completed for Smirnovskoye  
& construction starts Mid 2018
Funding
To finance working capital, in June 2014, the Company 
completed a fundraising of £2.05m, gross, via a 
placement of 22,804,310 new ordinary shares. In addition, 
the Company continues to benefit from the support 
being provided by Amrita Investments Limited, which 
has provided a facility to draw funding to meet liabilities 
as they fall due.
The Company has sufficient cash flow facilities  
to meet its current obligations. It will assess its future 
funding requirements on finalisation of its future plans, 
and is considering a number of options.  Kemin Resources Plc  Annual Report 2014 05
Strategic report  01-05
Governance 06-11
Financial statements 12-32
Financial performance review
The consolidated loss attributable to Kemin Resources 
shareholders in the twelve months ended 31 December 
2014 was £818,000 (FY 2013: £3,092,000 loss). These 
costs relate to the ongoing administrative costs and 
capital costs in developing the projects. In 2013 the 
costs were much higher as they principally related to 
higher legal and professional costs associated with the 
reverse takeover. In addition, a non-recurring adjustment 
was made for the share based payment arising as part 
of the reverse takeover of £2.6m. The strategic review 
conducted during 2014 has led to a significant reduction 
in ongoing head office costs. 
Cash spend is tightly monitored against budgets and the 
limited capital expenditure programme. 
The Company is continuing to spend resources  
on capital development and aiming to control all costs 
within tight financial limits. In the current year £1,162,000 
was spent on development of the projects, resulting  
in total capital spend to date on both projects of £2.8m.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The principal risks exposed to the Company are:
• availability of future funding;
• political and economic environment;
• fluctuation in commodity prices;
• financial risk; 
• the resource differing in grade and quantity  
to that predicted by feasibility studies.
Mitigation of risks and uncertainties
The Company’s management has analysed the risks and 
uncertainties and monitors the risks as far as it is practical 
given the early development of the Group.
While the Company has sufficient working capital 
facilities at present to meet its cash flow requirements,  
it is considering the availability of future funding options. 
The Company is reviewing its capital structure in this 
regard with the aim to fix interest rates, where possible, 
and with the preferred option to raise funds via equity.
Certain factors are beyond the control of the Company 
such as the fluctuations in the price of the commodities 
it is going to extract and possible political upheaval. 
However the Company is aware of these factors and 
tries to mitigate them as far as possible. The Company 
maintains close relationships with the Kazakhstan 
authorities, in order to minimise bureaucratic delays  
and problems.
In relation to the commodity prices, the project  
model, which has now been remodelled based on  
the movement in commodity prices suggests sufficient 
headroom given the low cost base which will provide 
a buffer against the effect of any further downward 
pressure on commodity prices.
The Company has used independent consultants, 
experienced in resource reports of the type required  
by the Company, to mitigate as far as possible any 
material changes in the resource estimates. It has 
recently further enhanced the estimates by engaging  
a well respected firm to obtain a JORC (2012) compliant 
resource statement. Further drilling will be undertaken  
as necessary based on the future project plan.
Key performance indicators
Given the stage of development of the Company,  
the key performance indicators used by the 
management for monitoring progress and strategic 
objectives for the business are set out below: 
The key statistic is the level of resources which has been 
measured by an independent consultancy.
Given the stage of development of the Group, it has  
a low number of employees who are concentrated  
in the head office. Details of the Group policy on 
employees is given on page 09.
The Strategic report was approved and authorised by  
the Board on 18 June 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Sanzhar Assaubayev
Chief Executive Officer
Key Performance Indicators
  31 December
 2014 2013
Molybdenum resources (metal equivalent) – C1 (Kt) 484.6 484.6
Tungsten resources (metal equivalent) – C1 (Kt) 81.4 81.4
Molybdenum resources – inferred grade (%) 0.156 0.156
Tungsten resources – inferred grade (%) 0.026 0.026
Cash balance (£000’s) 704 11
Exploration expenditure (cumulative – £000’s) 2,801 1,382
Net loss (£000’s) 870 3,099
