 WWW.KENTZ.COM 18 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Business review
Chief Executive’s review
201 1 marked another period of 
transition for Kentz; as we graduated  
to the Main Market of the London Stock 
Exchange three years after our initial 
public offering on AIM. 
Margin enhancing 
opportunities
2011 marked another period of transition for Kentz; 
as we graduated to the Main Market of the London 
Stock Exchange three years after our initial public 
offering on AIM. I believe there will be benefits to  
the move; greater interest in our story, a wider 
shareholder base and ranking among our peers. 
More importantly, having delivered another 30% 
growth in revenues and a 50% rise in our work on 
hand during the year, the move to the FTSE 250 is 
the right platform for the Company we believe Kentz 
can become. During 2011 we achieved a record 
backlog of US$2.4 billion that gives us greater 
visibility of earnings, and supports our investment in 
building out our capability and resources. This 
investment is key to our sustainable and profitable 
growth which we believe will continue in line with  
market expectations.
Our approach to achieving critical mass and growth 
across our three Global Business Units, underpinned 
by moving up the value chain to grow margin and 
earnings remains as the key element of Kentz 
strategy. We will continue to review acquisition 
opportunities in support of this strategy.
The last year proved yet again why our core historical 
Construction capabilities are central to the Kentz 
growth model. Kentz has been delivering multi-
discipline construction services globally for over  
30 years. Performance on tough and remote jobs  
is what has shaped our reputation and opened the 
door to provide other, higher-value, service offerings 
to our clients. 
 Æ Page 34 for further details on Construction
Delivering our own, direct-hire, construction labour 
means we are in control of our field execution 
activities and can better manage and control safety, 
execution and risk. This capability allows us to 
successfully deliver world class performance in such 
places as Far-East Russia, Papua New Guinea or 
Sub-Saharan Africa. Consistent delivery of such 
world class mega projects for major international 
clients was the key ingredient in our ability to win  
the Gorgon MEI US$2.3 billion reimbursable 
construction project which is being developed  
by three of the world’s largest oil companies. WWW.KENTZ.COM 19 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
•	 Increasing addressable  
markets
•	 Oil and Gas
•	 Metals and Mining
•	 Increase Asset  
Enhancement presence
•	 Increase Process EPC 
capabilities
•	 JVs
•	 EPS growth
•	 Margin growth
•	 Cash generation
•	 Tender performance  
ratios
•	 Safety performance metrics
•	 Backlog and pipeline growth
•	 Client account 
management plans
•	 New client development
•	 GBU awareness  
campaign
•	 Early project participation
•	 Segmental growth focus
•	 Safety leadership
•	 Risk management
•	 Ongoing development of 
internal project  
controls tools 
•	 Culture and organisational 
development 
•	 Talent development
•	 Communication
Innovation and 
Development
Customer 
Focus
Internal 
Processes
Performance 
Metrics
Oil, gas and petrochemical projects have 
consistently made up around 75% of our work,  
but 2011 saw a marked jump in mining and  
metals work that exemplifies the Kentz model of 
development. Over the years we have delivered a 
number of Construction scopes of work with major 
mineral resource clients in Southern Africa. Now as 
they seek out new projects and need more remote 
services Kentz is ideally placed to support them,  
with a complementary global footprint and services 
that sit across the lifecycle of their projects; from 
front-end engineering design, through provision  
of early infrastructure, construction services, 
completion and commissioning and into the 
operating phase. 
 Æ Page 24 for Client Project Lifecycle
2011 proved an uncertain year in terms of the global 
economy, but all the signs point to buoyant and 
sustained capital expenditure on the development of 
resources. I see huge potential still for Kentz; in the 
provision of more services to new and existing clients 
as well as in new geographies and sectors. The 
diversification of Kentz business from a value chain, 
end market and geographical standpoint affords 
Kentz the opportunity to grow further by increasing 
our addressable market. 
Kentz’s revenues were historically derived 90% from 
a client’s capital expenditure (in the development of 
new facilities) and only 10% from operational 
expenditure (delivering services on existing facilities). 
While we had all the requisite expertise in Asset 
Enhancement Services (AES) – maintenance and 
shutdown, brownfield engineering, and operations 
support – targeting specific opportunities with clients 
has reaped rewards in the past year with the award 
of five long-term brownfield engineering service 
contracts in the Middle East alone. Our strategy is to 
capitalise on the opportunities available in this 
business line through wider geographic expansion. 
During 2011 the capacity of our Development group 
has been increased to commit greater resources into 
new client development in the sectors we service to 
further expand our addressable market. 
business review WWW.KENTZ.COM 20 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Business review
Chief Executive’s review continued
Process EPC, or the delivery of onshore modular 
production facilities, is a further niche area where 
Kentz can differentiate its offering to our core clients 
as part of the continuing development of our 
business. Our target market is production facilities 
for the onshore oil and gas sector and in particular, 
upstream oil and gas process facilities including all 
the associated site infrastructure, process and 
non-process utilities, and off-sites. For international 
oil companies the modularisation of early and central 
production facilities is key to the economic viability  
of their field development plans; in achieving 
revenues sooner on modest production levels, 
conducting more in-depth field analysis via test-train 
facilities, and in many cases, maintaining the licence 
ownership for an area of operation that may not  
be first in line for full production development.  
The opportunity to provide oil and gas production 
facilities to clients is underpinned by Kentz’s proven 
success in the delivery of projects, often in logistically 
challenging locations, and it capitalises on reputable 
in-house engineering, procurement, modular 
fabrication and construction. 
Part of our stated strategy for completing the public 
listing in 2008 was to raise new funds to complete  
an acquisition in the Process EPC space. At the time 
we took a twin track approach; both identifying 
FY2011 6–12 months 12–18 months
Backlog Current prospects Strategic prospects
US$2.40bn 
As of end Dec 2011
US$3.91bn 
As of end Dec 2011
US$6.11bn 
As of end Dec 2011
visibility of Future Work
During 201 1, the total order 
intake converted to backlog  
was up almost 80% to US$2.26 
billion, providing very good 
visibility of future work through  
to 2015.
potential acquisitions as well as forming a joint 
venture called Kentz Global to address opportunities 
in the market for the provision of oil and gas 
production facilities. Recently in following this 
strategy Kentz has been able to develop a significant 
pipeline of opportunities, with existing clients that will 
underpin future growth. 
During 2011 we completed the acquisition of RNE,  
a South African supplier of engineering services, 
which has exceeded its revenue and profit targets  
for the year. Its addition reinforces the development 
and execution of several EPC projects underway in 
South Africa and in time should support the global 
operations of Kentz. 
In a number of cases Kentz has been able to pursue 
growth and new opportunities with clients through 
the formation of strategic joint-ventures. During 2011 
new joint-ventures in Australia, Qatar and Saudi 
Arabia were created with larger Engineering and 
Construction companies; confirming my belief that 
Kentz brings significant benefits through its global 
approach and local presence. These partnerships 
have supported Kentz to follow larger projects 
bringing an integrated service solution to existing  
and newer clients. WWW.KENTZ.COM 21 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
At the end of December 2011 we had grown our 
gross cash to just over US$238 million, an increase  
of approximately US$27 million from the position 
reported at June. We see three uses for this cash; 
further acquisitions, working capital finance for 
organic growth and reassurance; that we have the 
balance sheet strength to take on larger projects  
with our clients. 
Our dividend policy remains as it has been; to pay 
between 20-25% of profits, and I am confident that 
the utilisation of shareholder cash, to grow the 
business organically and through acquisition, will 
provide the best return to our investors. The global 
energy and resources landscape for new project 
development during 2011 continued to focus on 
remote and emerging areas. In line with this Kentz’s 
addressable market; our pipeline of opportunities 
with our key clients and sectors, has grown 23%  
to in excess of US$10 billion. We are continuing to 
convert opportunities from this extended pipeline in 
line with previous tender success rates. During 2011, 
the total order intake to backlog was up almost 80% 
to US$2.26 billion, providing very good visibility of 
future work through to 2015. 
Risk management is a constant focus of the 
Company. We have witnessed some fluctuations in 
the variables that make up our costs and retaining  
a disciplined approach to risk management 
throughout the bid, proposal and delivery phases is 
of paramount importance to our success. I believe 
that some amount of risk is mitigated by doing 
business with clients we know and who like working 
with Kentz. Once again repeat business with existing 
clients was a strong feature of Kentz in 2011. 
 Æ Page 38 for full risk breakdown
Execution excellence in health and safety is central  
to the successful operation of our business. It is a 
value that is reinforced from the very top level of  
the organisation to every individual working in our 
projects across the world; and defines our reputation 
in securing repeat work with core clients. During 
2011 our workforce grew to an average of 14,000 
employees worldwide and we delivered 52.5 million 
man-hours of work in 29 countries. 
Given our strong pipeline of opportunities and  
sound financial base, the most pressing constraint  
to our growth is hiring and retaining the very best 
people in the industry. Kentz has a strong culture  
and well-established training and development 
programmes for people at all levels of the 
organisation. Nonetheless, our rapid growth has 
meant the need to supplement the existing team  
with a number of external hires and 2011 saw the 
culmination of this search at a senior level; including 
my recruitment in August 2011 and subsequent 
appointment in February 2012 as the Group’s Chief 
Executive Officer.
It was an easy choice to join a business with a great 
track record and with such potential for the future.  
I look forward to the next few months with great 
excitement and will seek in the coming year to  
define where we see the greatest opportunities to 
further strengthen geographic and end market 
diversification and to enhance earnings growth 
focusing on 2014 and beyond. 
Christian Brown
Chief Executive Officer 
Sasol Polymers PP2 Shutdown 
Team, South Africa
business review
