 WWW.KENTZ.COM 8 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Overview
Chairman’s statement
World class 
performance
Kentz delivered another impressive 
performance in 201 1, with growth in 
order intake, sales and earnings 
finishing ahead of expectations.
Kentz delivered another impressive performance in 
2011, with growth in order intake, sales and earnings 
finishing ahead of expectations. In many ways the 
year represented a significant turning point for the 
Company; not least with our graduation to the Main 
Market of the London Stock Exchange. 
While Company values of Safety, Teamwork and 
Reputation remain at the foundation of our business, 
we are facing new challenges all the time through the 
rapidly shifting landscape of the industry, economic 
and regulatory environment. 
The global energy and resources conditions for  
new project development during 2011 continued to 
be focused on more remote and emerging areas. 
The safety track record that Kentz has built over 
time is central to our operations worldwide and focus 
on this is more important than ever when entering 
new areas. The Board takes its responsibility for the 
safety and welfare of employees very seriously and 
undertakes regular reviews on processes and 
performance. The Company’s third annual Safety 
Conference in March 2011 provided an opportunity 
to bring together people from around the global 
operations, as well as partners and clients to review 
and refine procedures. 
Strong and sustainable relationships with our clients 
hinge on our reputation for delivery and alignment 
with their values. Kentz continues to strengthen its 
relationships with key clients through the introduction 
of client account management plans. These now 
provide personalised focus for our key customers 
where a significant majority of recurring revenues 
occur. This has allowed us, going into 2012, to 
commit greater energy into new client development 
in the sectors we service and increase our 
addressable market.
Whilst energy associated stocks were hit during 2011 
by a number of credit rating agency downgrades and 
ongoing European debt concerns, the longer-term 
outlook for the energy and resources services 
sectors remains robust. The management team 
believes the Company’s outlook is very positive and 
continues to see the benefits of a global approach  
to servicing clients across the sectors in which  
we operate. During the year we have strengthened 
our senior management and their teams, through 
recruitment and training and development, in order 
to meet the demands of future opportunities  
for Kentz.  WWW.KENTZ.COM 9 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
In line with the significant achievements of the 
past year, the Board has stepped up to embrace 
new guidance on risk, Board leadership and 
effectiveness, executive remuneration and 
accountability. These have been set out within our 
Annual Report and Accounts through our Committee 
Reports. These Committees have provided direction 
and control over the growth of the Company’s 
business and ensured that we are complying with 
all relevant processes, customs, policies, laws, and 
institutions. I welcome an open and honest dialogue 
with all our shareholders and members of the Board 
have made themselves available to meet with 
shareholders on request. 
Lastly, as you will be aware, following the year end 
it was announced that Christian Brown succeeded 
Hugh O’Donnell as Chief Executive of the Company. 
On behalf of the Board and everyone at Kentz,  
I would like to pay tribute to Hugh for his huge 
contribution to the Company throughout his 12-year 
tenure. I personally have enjoyed working with 
Hugh enormously and we have all benefited from 
his leadership, experience and wisdom. We are 
delighted that Hugh has committed to a further three 
years with Kentz through his exclusive advisory 
arrangements. It is fantastic for us that his time will 
be spent on key client relationships and securing 
new business. 
We very much look forward to working with Christian 
and his management team in the coming months  
and years and feel confident that the outlook for  
the business and for our shareholders remains 
extremely positive. 
Tan Sri Mohd Razali Abdul Rahman
Chairman 
Our values
Safety
The safety and 
health of all our 
employees is the 
most important  
value held by our 
company: “no one 
gets hurt and 
everyone goes 
home safe  
and well.”
Teamwork
We work together  
to achieve 
organisational goals.
Reputation
Our current and 
future success 
stands on our 
reputation.
overview
