 10 KEYWORDS STUDIOS PLC
Chief Executive’s Review
Considerable progress in 
executing our growth strategy
2014 was a significant year in the development 
of Keywords: a year in which we became a group 
of companies with a number of well-known 
brands providing integrated services to the  
video game development and publishing  
markets around the world.
During the year, in addition to delivering organic 
growth of 23% and investing organically in  
new studios in Singapore and Barcelona (which 
opened in January 2015) we undertook four 
acquisitions and made a further two acquisitions 
in January 2015. The effect of these acquisitions 
has been to strengthen our market position in 
our core activities of localisation and testing 
services as well as extending our range of 
services upstream to art creation and 
downstream to customer support.
While executing and integrating acquisitions, we 
continued our focus on timely, secure delivery, 
quality and flexibility and we achieved revenues 
and profits in line with market expectations. 
Service line extensions 
In addition to bringing further scale to all of  
our existing service lines during the year, we 
have extended the business into two new  
areas of business.
Through the acquisition in October 2014 of 
Lakshya Digital, a well-established supplier of 
outsourced video game art creation services, 
Keywords has extended its reach into the earlier 
stage video game production process. Servicing 
some leading Japanese video game development 
studios as well as those in the US and Europe, 
Lakshya creates characters, environments, and in 
game items for AAA console titles as well as for 
social, mobile and massively multiplayer online 
(“MMO”) games. 
We estimate the market for outsourced art 
creation and production for video games to  
be in the order of twice the size of that for 
localisation and testing services at around 
$1.2bn. We are already gaining visibility of 
production pipelines earlier in the development 
cycle than we do through our other service lines 
and we are already identifying opportunities  
to cross sell services at this earlier stage. The 
objective for our art creation services line of 
business is to grow capacity to fulfil demand  
in a manner that maintains quality, reliability  
of deliveries and extends our capabilities to  
areas such as special effects.
Shortly after the end of the year we acquired  
a customer care services business, Alchemic 
Dream. In addition to continuing to grow is  
core activities which benefit from a network  
of multilingual agents working remotely but 
connected through technology platforms,  
we intend to accelerate the development of  
an alternative customer care service delivery 
model that leverages our more than 1,000 
games and language specialised staff who  
work in our secure facilities in strategically 
important locations in Asia, Europe and the 
Americas. By doing this, Keywords teams of 
native language employees can follow the game 
into the market as the games transition through 
the production and launch phases to ongoing live 
operational support, thereby exploiting their 
deep knowledge of all aspects of the game to 
support players as they engage with the content.
We intend to continue to extend our service  
lines in line with client and market demand  
both through acquisitions and by leveraging  
the Group’s existing internal skill sets to  
develop additional services to take to market. 
 h
130%
Increase in Group revenues.
 h
104%
Increase in adjusted profit before tax. 11 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
14%
Babel increased profitability 
from 2% return on sales  
to a healthy 14% return.
CASE STUDY: BABEL 
ACQUISITION
The acquisition of Babel Media represented one of the  
first in a number of successful buyouts for the Group 
following Keyword’s debut on AIM in the summer of  
2013. The driving force for Keywords going public was  
its strategy to consolidate a fragmented services market, 
despite the clients being global organisations, and to 
become the leading outsourced multilingual services 
provider to the video games industry. 
Founded in 1999, Babel had become one of the most 
recognised technical services brands in the video games 
industry with particular strengths in functional testing, 
localisation and localisation testing. 
By acquiring Babel, for £5.4m, Keywords significantly 
enhanced its functional testing capability, whilst providing 
substantial operational synergies with Keywords’ existing 
localisation and localisation testing activities as well  
as extending its client base and geographical reach 
including its first presence to India. 
By bringing to Babel the benefits of Keywords’ flatter, 
leaner structure, its strong focus on project management, 
and sharing back office and marketing functions we  
have been able to deliver significant cost savings,  
with annualised savings in excess of CAD$1.0m, whilst 
preserving the enlarged group’s ability to deliver best in 
class service across the combined operations. As a result, 
during the first 10 months under Keywords ownership, 
Babel increased profitability from 2% return on sales  
to a healthy 14% return.
Strategic Report III II Chief Executive’s Review  
(continued)
MAJOR CLIENT CASE STUDY:  
A TRACK RECORD IN EXPANDING  
OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH  
MAJOR CLIENTS
Keywords has a strong track record of taking advantage of the  
trend towards the provision of multiple services to clients and  
towards clients’ rationalisation of service suppliers, as game  
publishers and developers seek to simplify an otherwise complex 
production supply chain.
In the case of one of Keywords’ major clients, Keywords began 
supplying a service to control the quality of translations being  
supplied by other vendors in 2000.
Four years later, in partnership with the client, Keywords developed  
a new, more effective way of testing localised games using native 
speaking games testers rather than games testers supported  
by linguists.
These two services continued to be delivered from Dublin for six years 
while more European languages were added to support the wider 
distribution of the games. In 2010, as the client started to rationalise 
the supplier base, Keywords started to translate games for the client.  
In 2011, Keywords expanded the relationship by starting to provide 
translations of game related marketing content and, encouraged by the 
client, Keywords established a facility in Tokyo as the client moved from 
an insourced model of localisation and testing of East Asian languages 
to outsourcing with Keywords, to the benefit of its Tokyo studio. 
Further supplier rationalisation and internal cost savings led the client 
to restructure its operations, moving all its management to the US. 
Keywords supported the client in this shift of activities and worked 
with the client to design and supply a managed services operation  
from the client’s own facility on the West Coast.
In 2014, with the acquisitions of Binari Sonori and Lakshya, the  
range of services being supplied has been further strengthened  
and extended with art production being added to localisation,  
audio, and localisation testing.
12 KEYWORDS STUDIOS PLC 13 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
We have been pleased with the progress we  
have made with integrating the businesses 
acquired. The businesses have performed  
well as part of the Group and we have been  
very encouraged by the positive responses  
from customers to the acquisitions.
In January 2015, we amended the terms of  
our acquisition of Binari Sonori to conclude  
the earn out arrangements earlier than  
originally planned with a view to integrating  
the business more closely with that of the  
core Keywords operations. More detail is  
provided in the Financial and Operating  
Review on pages 17 to 19.
We have been delighted with the integration  
of Babel Media in particular which, as the most 
directly competitive business to that of Keywords, 
presented the greatest risk and greatest potential 
return. In the 10 months under our ownership, we 
have been able to make annualised cost savings  
of over CAD$1.0m from introducing a flatter, 
leaner structure and combining our two Montreal 
locations, back office and sales and marketing 
functions. This, combined with a strong trading 
performance from Babel, has resulted in the 
business of Babel moving from a 2% return  
on sales in 2013 to a healthy 14% return on  
sales in 2014. 
We expect acquisition activity to be a feature  
of the business for the foreseeable future as  
the company takes advantage of its leadership 
position in the market and continues to 
consolidate carefully selected, earnings accretive 
businesses. As such, we continue to review a 
number of acquisition opportunities which will 
provide the Group with complementary services, 
increased scale in its existing activities or further 
geographic expansion.
Results overview
The Group’s revenues increased by 130% to 
€37.29m (2013: €16.18m) during the period.  
This increase was spread across all lines of 
business: Localisation activities grew by 125%; 
Audio grew by 311%; and Functional Testing, 
expanded many fold, as outlined in more detail  
in the operational review.
Gross profit margins reduced modestly to 34.1% 
(2013: 34.7%) as a result of the change in the mix 
of business of the Group in 2014 compared to 
2013, particularly the higher percentage of lower 
margin functional testing revenue following the 
acquisition of Babel Media in February. 
Underlying operating expenses excluding 
one-time costs increased by a total of €4.37m  
for the period to €7.56m (2013: €3.19m) 
reflecting our investment in expansion but were 
maintained at approximately 20% of revenues. 
The one-time costs included IPO costs of nil 
(2013: €1.12m), non-cash costs related to share 
option expenses of €0.16m (2013: €0.07m), 
amortisation of intangible assets of €0.47m 
(2013: nil) and costs of acquisition and 
integration of €1.46m (2013: €0.07m). 
The Group reported adjusted profit before tax 
(before IPO expenses, share option charges, 
amortisation of intangible assets, costs of 
acquisition and integration and foreign currency 
movements) for 2014 of €5.05m (2013: €2.45m). 
Statutory profit before tax for the period was 
€3.44m (2013: €1.16m). 
“ Keywords is clearly differentiated from its 
competitors by its use of games-specialised  
native staff for all languages, its ability to offer 
services flexibly on-site at clients’ premises or  
in its specialised, secure global studios, its track 
record of delivery for many of the most prominent 
games companies and by the breadth of its  
service capabilities.”
Geographic expansion
The Group has expanded geographically and now 
has 14 (2013: 9) studios in 3 continents providing 
full, integrated video games services to both local 
and global clients. This broad reach has enabled 
Keywords to extend its localisation services into 
more than 50 languages across 12 platforms to 
clients in over 15 countries. 
Keywords’ 14 studios are strategically located to 
provide services to key gaming clusters in locations 
such as Tokyo, Singapore, Montreal, Seattle, Los 
Angeles and London. We have expanded into new 
locations including Singapore and Rio de Janeiro 
during the year and, in January 2015, we opened 
a localisation and project management office  
in Barcelona in order to access local talent pools. 
We have also consolidated office locations where 
acquisitions have brought studios in the same 
location, combining two studios in Montreal  
into one unit and doing the same in New Delhi, 
providing both cost synergies and the opportunity 
to foster greater cross-selling opportunities.
China presents an opportunity for the Group  
as the second largest market for games outside 
of the US and one that is slowly liberalising. 
Changes in government policy in China now 
means that it is possible to sell games consoles 
there. Microsoft launched the Xbox One in  
China in November 2014 and Sony is expected  
to follow suite. We therefore continue to  
review opportunities to invest organically  
or by acquisition in the region. The Group  
has invested in two business development 
resources in China in 2014 and is in the  
process of establishing a wholly foreign  
owned enterprise (“WFOE”) in Shanghai in 
anticipation of investing further in the country.
Acquisitions
In line with the Group’s strategy, Keywords has 
taken advantage of the fragmented markets in 
which it operates to grow through a combination 
of acquisitions and continued organic growth. 
Liquid Violet (audio services), Babel Media 
(localisation, localisation testing and functional 
testing), Binari Sonori (localisation and audio)  
and Lakshya Digital (art creation services) were 
all acquired during 2014 – in January, February, 
May, and October respectively. In January  
2015, Alchemic Dream (customer support  
and community management) and Reverb 
(localisation and audio for Brazilian  
Portuguese) were added to the stable.
III II Strategic Report 14 KEYWORDS STUDIOS PLC
Chief Executive’s Review  
(continued)
6
Acquisitions across the global market 
since early 2014.
978
Average number of people on the 
payroll in 2014.
Results overview continued
The Group’s effective tax rate has increased  
in line with the increased proportion of profits 
earned in higher tax rate jurisdictions including 
Canada, US, Japan and Italy. The Group’s effective 
tax rate based on the KWS measured profit 
before taxation in the period (as set out on  
page 18) was 24.0% (2013: 16.0%).
Basic earnings per share for the year, before 
one-time costs of acquisitions and integration, 
share option charges, amortisation of intangibles, 
and foreign exchange movements, was 8.54c 
compared with 5.76c for 2013. After these items, 
the basic earnings per share from continuing 
operations was 4.94c (2013: 2.14c). 
Operational review
2013 and 2014 have been years in which the 
transition to the latest generation of games 
consoles have led to some unusual trading 
patterns. In 2014, as expected, activity in the 
final quarter of the year was atypically busy 
following a less active summer period as 
publishers of console games for the PS4 and 
Xbox One chose not to release a number of titles 
in the traditional Thanksgiving and Christmas 
holiday gifting period in favour of releasing in  
Q1 2015 to take advantage of the increased 
installed base of those consoles given the strong 
sale of those devices in the holiday period. 
Overall, the Company continued its strong 
performance achieving organic growth of 23% 
while more than doubling total revenues to 
€37.29m (2013: €16.18m) including the effect  
of acquisitions. The six acquisitions made to  
date have also broadened our range of services 
and further extended our geographical reach.
Localisation testing operations, which 
accounted for 39% of Group revenue, grew by 
58% to €14.66m (2013: €9.28m). This includes 
contribution from the acquisition of Babel Media 
in February 2014. Despite having experienced  
a significant reduction in volume from a major 
client which was not as active during this period, 
this service line continued its strong growth 
thanks to its market leading reputation and 
overall healthy demand from console and  
mobile games sectors. 
Our Functional testing service, which accounted 
for 13% of Group revenue in 2014 (2013: 2%),  
was transformed into a service line with critical 
mass through the acquisition of Babel Media  
where functional testing was a larger share of its 
overall activity. We achieved revenues of €4.99m 
(2013: €0.35m) undertaking significant projects 
for clients including Warner Bros., Carbine  
and Bioware. 
Localisation (translation) activities, including 
contributions from Binari Sonori which was 
acquired in May 2014, increased revenues by 125%, 
to €11.97m (2013: €5.32m) and accounted for 32% 
of Group revenue. Binari Sonori’s translation and 
audio business is focussed on the console game 
market particularly for large, high production value, 
AAA game titles. In contrast the core translation 
business at Keywords and at Babel derives the 
majority of its revenue from mobile, social and 
online games. The combination of these three 
businesses has resulted in the creation of the 
market leading video games localisation services 
supplier, well represented in all types of games.
Growth in our Audio activities of 311% to 
€5.08m (2013: €1.23m) was driven both by 
organic growth and the acquisitions of Liquid 
Violet and Binari Sonori in January and May  
2014 respectively, which both performed well 
following their acquisition. Voice recordings in 
video games add considerable depth to a game 
and are expected to continue to grow as the new 
generation of consoles provide more powerful 
processors and larger storage capabilities to 
enable richer gaming content than ever before. 
Similarly, smartphones are becoming increasing 
capable gaming platforms and the addition  
of voice content to games is a trend we also 
expect to see accelerate in mobile games.
Art creation services was added to our range  
of services through the acquisition of Lakshya 
Digital in October 2014 adding revenues of 
€0.61m in the last quarter. In the face of strong 
market demand for art creation services, we 
intend to invest in organic expansion and further 
acquisitions to build this service line to match 
those of our translation and testing businesses 
in the coming years.
As we grow, we have continued to invest in  
the infrastructure to support the larger Group.  
We have benefitted from some strong additions 
to our senior leadership team following the 
acquisitions made during the year. We expanded 
our sales support, growing from one dedicated 
business development executive in 2013 to  
eight in 2014. Investment in project management, 
workflow management and financial reporting 
continues as these tools are rolled out to support 
all operations in a centralised and consistent 
manner, facilitating strong management 
reporting and control.  15 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
2013 2014
12
15
3
9
6
0
€14.8
€9.3
2013 2014
5
4
6
1
3
2
0
€5.1
€1.2
2013 2014
10
8
12
2
6
4
0
€12.0
€5.3
2013 2014
4
5
1
3
2
0
€5.0
€0.3
2013 2014
0.6
0.8
0.2
0.4
0
€0.6
€Nil
GROWTH IN SERVICE LINE REVENUES
Localisation testing (m) 
€14.8m
h
58%
Functional testing (m) 
€5.0m
h
€4.7m
Localisation services (m)
€12m
h
125%
Audio/Voiceover services (m)
€5.1m
h
311%
Art creation services (m)
€0.6m
We also continue to invest in talent and our 
growth helps us to attract and retain talent,  
as candidates can see exciting opportunities  
for career progression throughout the Group.  
The Group employed an average of 978 people  
in 2014 (2013: 371).
Outlook
With the installed base for the new generation  
of consoles having reached what many believe to 
be the tipping point following the 2014 holiday 
season, 2015 is expected to be the first solid, 
post transition year in the console game sector 
and we are looking forward to returning to more 
normal trading patterns as a result. 
Strong demand at our recently acquired Lakshya 
Digital art outsourcing business will be met by 
investment in expanding its resource base in 
India as well as a small studio in Seattle to  
help manage and scale the business, while 
maintaining quality.
In January 2015, to better serve the multiplayer 
games segments, we opened a localisation  
and project management office in Barcelona in 
order to access local talent pools. This modest 
investment is already bearing fruit with some 
new client wins.
Entering 2015 with six lines of business, we feel 
confident that the synergies already experienced 
between the business units will continue to build 
through 2015 and beyond, as we continue to 
identify and convert cross selling opportunities. 
We expect to focus on opportunities to grow our 
newer service lines to achieve a good balance 
with our other business lines. In particular, the  
art outsourcing market is expected to yield some 
interesting acquisition candidates as we seek 
opportunities to extend our services in that  
area as well as broaden our geographic spread  
to better enable us to leverage the synergies 
with our other services. 
We will continue to manage our businesses in  
a lean and agile manner to optimise resourcing 
levels across the business and to leverage the 
benefits of centralised functions across a larger 
group while operating locally to our clients, 
enabling us to best interpret their needs. 2015 
will be another busy year for the Group as  
we make further progress with integrating 
acquisitions and realise the full year benefits  
of acquisitions made through 2014, whilst also 
driving growth both organically and through 
further selective acquisitions.
III II Strategic Report 16 KEYWORDS STUDIOS PLC
Chief Executive’s Review  
(continued)
Principal risks and uncertainties
Keywords is a fast growing but relatively small 
Group operating in a wide spread geography. The 
markets we operate in are fragmented in terms 
of the suppliers of services but our client base  
is relatively concentrated with a number of very 
large, global suppliers at the head and a large  
tail of small, independent developers. The market 
is highly dynamic, with technology, business 
models and consumer tastes evolving constantly. 
In this environment Keywords has the objective 
of becoming the leading global supplier of 
localisation, testing, audio and other related 
services to the industry and sees the following 
risks as it pursues this objective.
The Principal risks associated with the Group’s 
strategy can be divided into:
1. General business risks for any international 
company;
2. Industry related risks; and
3. Those specific to the Keywords Group and  
its strategy.
Beyond the general business risks associated 
with any international company, the principal 
risks related to the industry or more specifically 
to Keywords and its strategy, as identified by the 
management and the Board, are set out below:
A) External risks
Exposure to large customers: 
The Company’s client base principally comprises 
global game companies whose revenues are in 
the billions and hundreds of millions of Dollars. 
Our top five clients account for 49% (2013: 61%) 
of the company’s revenues. These companies 
have exacting standards and demand a high 
quality of service. Any failure in this regard  
or breakdown in the relationships at the top  
level could cause considerable damage to  
the business. The potential impact is partially 
mitigated through the company’s highly flexible 
resource base and its expansion continues to 
reduce its exposure to any single large client.
Confidence of the City and investors:
Keywords floated on AIM in July 2013 with an 
expressed set of objectives of growing the 
business organically and by acquisition. Should  
the Company lose the confidence of investors,  
the Company’s rating will suffer and this in turn 
will affect its ability to raise money for or place 
shares to pay for acquisitions. However, the 
Company makes every effort to communicate 
regularly with investors via announcements  
and face to face contact and this effective 
communication of how it continues to execute  
on its stated growth strategy and successfully 
integrate the businesses it acquires should 
continue to maintain the confidence of  
its investors.
Sudden business interruption:
Keywords is a global business and needs to 
minimise business interruptions and be able to 
continue servicing customers. This threat could  
be internal such as a major failure in its IT systems 
but also external such as the Group experienced 
and managed during the 2011 Japan earthquake 
and tsunami. The Group’s multiple, full service, 
delivery hubs provide for a good level of 
contingency and, supported by a solid business 
continuity plan and comprehensive insurance,  
the effects of such disasters can be managed.
B) Internal risks 
Security:
The industry requires the highest standards  
of security within a company offering services 
such as Keywords. Security breaches may lead  
to piracy, disruption of clients’ marketing plans, 
loss of competitive edge and could result in 
compensation claims. Keywords maintains 
physical and data security policies and 
procedures which are regularly audited  
by its larger clients.
Success of acquisitions: 
Keywords has embarked on an acquisition 
strategy to reinforce its global growth.  
Managing such acquisitions successfully  
and embedding the Keywords culture will be  
a crucial ingredient of success. Failure to do  
so will have adverse consequences such as 
management distraction, disposal and reduced 
profit. Whilst middle management is relatively 
inexperienced in this regard, this is mitigated by 
the considerable experience within the senior 
management team and across the Board. The 
group is actively involving middle management  
in the acquisition process to broaden the 
experience and our capabilities in executing  
and integrating acquisitions.
C) Financial risks
Adequate overseas financial controls: 
As a business like Keywords grows rapidly, global 
financial controls, and regular audits need to be  
in place to ensure smooth, timely and accurate 
reporting to satisfy the relevant accounting 
bodies to local branches as well as the Board. The 
Group has invested and continues to invest in its 
financial reporting functions to facilitate strong 
reporting and management control as it grows.
Andrew Day   
Chief Executive  
April 14, 2015
