 2 KEYWORDS STUDIOS PLC
Chairman’s Statement
The business in 2014
In last year’s statement, my first for Keywords  
as a listed company, I set the scene describing my 
initial view of the Company, its business ethos 
and culture and the opportunities for organic and 
acquisitive growth in a fragmented market. I am 
pleased to be able to report that, in its first full 
year as a listed company, Keywords has clearly 
delivered its strategy with a strong financial 
performance during the year and four well-
conceived and executed acquisitions.
During 2014 the business has more than met the 
Board’s ambitious expectations. Organic revenue 
growth of 23% has been augmented by four 
acquisitions (with two further small purchases 
after the financial year end) such that annualised 
revenues have grown three-fold since our IPO in 
2013. These new businesses are integrating well 
within Keywords – maintaining their own brands 
while absorbing the Keywords’ culture, its efficient 
way of working and its strong financial controls. 
The acquisitions have resulted in a change in  
the business mix, making the Group much broader 
and better balanced and they have opened up 
opportunities that it simply could not have 
delivered without all of its current constituents.
An important criteria for an acquisitive company 
is to improve continuously its quality of earnings 
– sheer growth on its own can prove an illusory 
achievement. Here, I believe, we have measured 
up well. In particular, we are very encouraged  
by the fact that customers, old and new, are 
increasingly using Keywords, and the Board 
believes that the introduction of Keyword’s 
approach to operational efficiency in the  
new companies will continue to drive margin 
improvement over time. 
People & culture
Last year I commented on the Keywords’ culture 
engendering a “can do” attitude founded on the 
value placed in our people – this attribute is well 
reflected in how much they actually “have done”. 
The Group is ahead of plan in terms of both 
acquiring new service lines (such as the acquisition 
of Lakshya Digital in October 2014 which took 
Keywords into the large Art Outsourcing market 
for the first time) and the establishment of offices 
in locations closer to key clients (such as the 
recent acquisition of an office in Brazil and the 
establishment of the studio in Singapore).
Recently the leadership team from round the 
world came together for two days of strategy 
and operational exchanges. At this event, it was 
clear that Keywords now benefits from even 
greater strength in the depth of its leadership 
team and that this team is excited to work 
together with collective ambition, boding  
well for the future.
However, the Group is not just reliant on its 
leaders and I would like to thank each and every 
person within the organisation for their individual 
contributions (going the extra mile) to Keywords’ 
achievements and transformation during the year.
Shareholders & dividend
During the year, the Group raised a further £6.0m 
through a well-supported institutional placing 
and we would like to thank shareholders for their 
ongoing support as we continue to focus on 
delivering shareholder value through our organic 
and acquisitive growth strategy. However, we  
are looking at augmenting our investor relations 
efforts to ensure the Group’s strong overall 
performance and enhanced positioning is  
better reflected in the share price. 
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 0.74p, 
which gives a total dividend for the year of 1.10p 
and represents an increase of 10% compared to 
the total dividend of 1.00p in 2013. This increase  
is consistent with our progressive dividend policy 
which takes into account the financial performance 
of the Group and the alternative uses of funds that 
will deliver shareholder value.
Current trading and prospects
The Group has made a good start to the year. 
Having already delivered strong organic and 
acquisitive growth, in line with our strategy, and 
taken the business into complementary services 
such as art outsourcing and customer support, we 
are now well positioned as the “go to” organisation 
for outsourcing and integrated services in the 
video games market. As importantly, Keywords  
is now known as the leading consolidator in the 
market and attracts automatic interest from 
vendors and management teams wishing to join  
a larger, more diverse group. 
 
Strong financial 
performance and 
delivery on strategy  Download 200,000+ brand logos in vector format for free
http://www.logoeps.com/
3 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
“ Having delivered strong organic and acquisitive 
growth and taken the business into complementary 
services such as art outsourcing and customer 
support, we are now well positioned as the “go to” 
organisation for outsourced and integrated 
services in the video games market.”
As a market leader with a strong financial 
position we are well placed to deliver on the 
potential for high margin growth we see in our 
growing markets, both traditional and emerging. 
We expect to benefit in 2015 from a more 
settled console games market, the full year 
effects of acquisitions made during 2014 and 
continued growth both organically and through 
additional selective acquisitions, as we further 
consolidate our market leadership. We, therefore, 
look forward with confidence to making further 
progress as we move through the current year 
and beyond. 
Ross K Graham
Chairman
April 14, 2015
Keywords Services 20 of the Top 25 Games Companies by Revenue*...
… and 7 of the Top 10 Mobile Games Developers by Revenue**
* Source: Newzoo, Top 25 Games Companies by Revenues, July 2014.
** Source: PocketGamer.Biz, Top 50 Developers of 2015, March 2015.
III II Strategic Report
