 Kier Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005
12
Chief executive’s review
The year has been an extremely busy one for Kier 
with record turnover and profit levels achieved 
by all the divisions. A growing proportion of our
work has been secured from repeat business and
negotiated contracts and an increasing amount 
is being generated from development schemes 
where two or more of the divisions within the 
Group are working together.
(continued opposite) 13
Kier Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005
An example of this is at Whitehall where 
the office development for Defra was
completed during the year by Kier Build,
working for developer Kier Property, with
Kier Managed Services carrying out the
facilities management function. Further
examples include PFI projects and other
schemes involving Kier Residential and 
Kier Partnership Homes. This rare offering 
of a total solution to clients’ increasingly
complex requirements is providing us 
with some unique opportunities and an
ability to attract new clients. I am confident
that further value can be achieved from
these markets.
Construction
The full-year results for the Construction
segment have been analysed separately from
those of Support Services for the first time.
Our Construction segment includes Kier
Regional, comprising Regional Contracting,
Affordable Housing and Major Building
Projects, and Kier Construction our
Infrastructure and Overseas operation.
Turnover from the Construction segment
reached £1,096.2m, 8.8% up on 2004’s
£1,007.3m, fuelled by a good market and 
a strong supply of public sector work.
Operating profit, before goodwill
amortisation, increased by 35.7% to 
£15.6m (2004: £11.5m) and the operating
margin increased from 1.1% to 1.4%. Cash
generation has been exceptionally strong
with cash balances at 30 June 2005 over
£50m higher than the previous year end 
and average cash balances for the year
£34m ahead. Contract awards were at a
record £1,372m (2004: £931m) including a
number of long-term framework contracts,
providing a record order book of £1,030m
at 30 June 2005 (2004: £662m).
The year to 30 June 2005 saw a number 
of records for Kier Regional: turnover at
£954.6m was 10.0% ahead of 2004; 
year-end cash balances of £205m were
£36m ahead; and contract awards at
£1,018m compare favourably with the
previous record set in 2004 of £845m.
The strength of Kier Regional lies in its 
wide network of UK construction businesses
which combine local knowledge with
national presence enabling it to respond to a
wide range of markets and sectors. Through
strategic alliances and frameworks with
public sector clients it delivers a co-
ordinated service through Kier Health, for
ProCure21; Kier Custodial, for prisons; and
Kier Education, for ‘Building Schools for the
Future’. Other local authority and housing
association frameworks have also been
established including those to deliver
affordable housing. These frameworks and
strategic alliances have contributed to an
increase in public sector awards to 41% of
the total, compared with 36% in 2004. In
the private sector, where commercial and
retail awards dominate, similar frameworks
exist, for example, through Kier Retail, for
clients such as Tesco, Waitrose and Morrisons.
The proportion of total awards from
negotiated and two-stage bids has increased
to 59% in 2005 from 52% in 2004. 
Kier Regional has started the new financial
year with an order book of £647m (2004:
£511m) comprising largely shorter-term
contracts at an average value of £2.6m
which provides protection against building
cost inflation and maintains a low risk
profile, a strategy that has been key to the
success of this business. With this type and
value of work in hand and a large volume of
contracts pending award we anticipate
further growth in the business during this
financial year.
In the UK, the civil engineering arm of Kier
Construction successfully completed a major
section of the Channel Tunnel Rail Link and
secured a Network Rail Structures Framework
contract for the East Anglia region which is
expected to provide £100m of work over
five years. The water sector has provided
further work through our second five-year
framework agreement with United Utilities,
in joint venture, which will provide £130m
of work for Kier over the period. Our private
opencast coal mine at Greenburn has now
completed its first full year of production. So
far 750,000 tonnes have been mined and
over 60% of that remaining in the ground
has been forward sold at favourable, fixed
prices. Possible extensions to the mine are
being explored which could extend the
period of activity beyond the current
anticipated completion date of 2009.
Overseas, our activities in the Caribbean are
thriving with the award of a new hotel
contract for Sandals in Antigua and a
transportation centre in Kingston, Jamaica.
Our long-term alliance with Alcoa continues
on projects at alumina refineries in Suriname
and Jamaica and we are set to play a further
major role in Alcoa’s worldwide capital
expansion plans. During the year we sold
our remaining shares in Kier Hong Kong
which provided an exceptional profit of
£0.8m. We maintain our relationships 
with local Hong Kong contractors which
may, in time, lead to future joint venture
opportunities in the Far East.
Support Services
Our Support Services business continues 
to prosper. Overall turnover increased by
15.1% to £227.5m (2004: £197.7m) and
operating profit, after goodwill amortisation,
rose to £3.2m; before goodwill it was 
£5.1m (2004: £4.7m) representing a 
margin of 2.2%. A number of contracts 
were awarded during the year resulting 
in a record order book of £1.2bn at 
30 June 2005 (2004: £1.1bn).
Building Maintenance successfully
implemented the Leeds North West and
Leeds South repair and maintenance
contracts with a combined value of over
£10m per annum for the next five years,
extendable for a further five. Kier Sheffield
added to its, already successful, building
maintenance contract by securing a share 
of the Sheffield Decent Homes framework
contract which will provide us with around
£160m of work over seven years. Other
Decent Homes framework contracts were
awarded at Islington for £40m and
Greenwich for £7.5m, both over five years.
New work is plentiful in this sector and we
are hopeful of further awards in the current
financial year.
In Managed Services the portfolio of services
provided under the Private Finance Initiative
continues to grow with the start of services 
(continued on page 15) Kier Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005
14
Growth through integration
Project: Waltham Forest Schools
Academy Services, a partnership between Kier
Project Investment and Dexia Public Finance Bank,
is providing eight new schools for the London
Borough of Waltham Forest. Three of Kier’s regional
construction businesses, Kier London, Kier Southern
and Kier Eastern, are between them building one
secondary and seven primary and infant schools in
and around Waltham Forest under a £50m contract.
Kier Group’s M&E arm, IEI, is undertaking all M&E
work for the eight schools. Kier Managed Services
will be maintaining the new schools for a 30-year
term when they open in summer 2006. Kier Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005
15
Chief executive’s review
Continued
at Essex, Harrow, Waltham Forest and
Bexley Schools. We were pleased to have
won ‘Best Operational Health Scheme’ in
the UK for Neath Port Talbot Hospital in the
Public Private Finance Awards for the standard
of service provided to clients and the award
for Best Operational Education Project for
Pembroke Dock Community School.
Homes
Kier Residential came forward at 1 July 2004
with an exceptionally strong order book
which provided a high level of unit sales 
for the six months to 31 December 2004. 
As predicted the number of unit sales was
lower in the second half of the year. Full-
year completions of 1,215 were 4.9% ahead
of 2004’s 1,158 at an average selling price of
£181,700 (2004: £186,300) which provided
turnover of £220.8m (2004: £215.7m) from
housing sales. A land disposal, planned as
part of a larger site, generated a further
£4.7m of turnover at no profit or loss. The
reduction in average selling prices year on
year reflects both a 7% reduction in average
unit size and an increase in the proportion
of affordable housing sales from 5% of total
sales in 2004 to 12% in 2005.
Operating profit increased by 7.2% to £34.1m
(2004: £31.8m) at a margin of 15.4% on
housing turnover (2004: 14.7%), benefiting
during the period from a large strategic site
at Royston which is now complete. Our
Scottish-based business contributed strongly
to the growth following the restructuring and
strengthening of the local management team
and assisted by a sound market.
During the year £69m was spent on
selective land purchases and in June 2005
we acquired the land and work in progress
of Ashwood Homes, in an off-market deal,
for £23.5m of which £8.5m is deferred.
Nine sites, located in Lincolnshire and
Cambridgeshire, were acquired in the
transaction comprising 389 units with
planning consent. At 30 June 2005 the 
land-bank contained 5,178 units with
planning consent (2004: 4,961) representing
slightly more than our target holding of four
years’ unit sales. At 30 June 2005 we held
approximately 12,000 units of strategic land,
mostly under option, after achieving planning
consent during the year for 550 units on a
former Anglian Water site near the centre of
Peterborough. Significant planning progress
has also been made in delivering a site at
Aylesbury, part of a mixed-use development
area, which should provide us with 400
units for development. Strategic land is
proving a valuable route for land acquisition.
Historically approximately 18% of our annual
unit sales have originated from this process. 
Kier Residential is making good progress at
Poole Harbour where contracts have been
exchanged with Network Rail on a six-acre
mixed-use development site. Work is about
to commence, in conjunction with Kier
Construction and Kier Property, to deliver 
a new hotel, 250 apartments and a new
railway station. Other mixed-use projects
include the former Shippams paste factory
site in Chichester where planning consent
has been granted for 165 apartments and
50,000sq ft of retail units for redevelopment
in conjunction with Kier Property and 
Kier Regional.
The holiday period has, as always, resulted
in fewer visitors to our sites, however, the
ratio of visitors to sales has improved.
Although purchasers are taking longer to
make their decision, we have taken more
reservations in the two months to 31 August
2005 than in the same period last year.
Taken together the order book and
completions to date are at a marginally
lower level than last year reflecting the
strong brought forward position at 1 July
2004. We will be selling from around 18%
more outlets during the year compared with
the year to 30 June 2005 and therefore we
anticipate growth in unit sales for the full
year of which 43% are already secure. The
balance of unit sales is expected to be more
heavily skewed towards the second half of
the year than 2005. 
Property
Kier Property continues to establish itself as
one of the UK’s leading commercial property
developers. It has a development pipeline
totalling 4m sq ft of space including offices,
industrial, retail and mixed-use schemes 
£1 ,030m
Record construction order 
book at 30 June 2005
1 ,215
Unit sales from 
housebuilding Kier Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005
16
with a future sales value of nearly £700m
developed directly and through joint venture.
In the year to 30 June 2005 Kier Property
achieved a 29.6% increase in turnover to
£60.4m (2004: £46.6m) and a 51.5%
increase in operating profit to £10.0m
(2004: £6.6m). The completion, by
contractors Kier Regional, of the office
developments at Whitehall for Defra and 
at Swindon for the National Trust during 
the year contributed strongly to the results.
Also in the offices sector the 100,000sq ft
head office for BAE subsidiary AMS was
completed at Frimley Business Park 
and plans are in preparation for a 
further 300,000sq ft office scheme in 
the same location. 
Under the Trade City industrial brand 
we acquired a site at Enfield for up to
50,000sq ft of industrial space and
completed our sites at Bicester, Exeter 
and Romford.
In the retail sector we completed a further
75,000sq ft resource recovery unit at
Waltham Park for J Sainsbury adjacent to the
700,000sq ft distribution centre completed
for the same client some time ago. Further
investment in retail included the acquisition
of the 100,000sq ft Mannington Retail Park
in Swindon which is let to national occupiers
and includes valuable redevelopment and
refurbishment opportunities.
In Reading town centre a 22-storey
residential and retail development has been
given the go-ahead and at Sunbury consent
has been granted for a new hotel and 90 flats
near to Kempton racecourse. More mixed-use
opportunities are being bid for in conjunction
with Kier Residential as well as other office,
retail and industrial sites. In order to fund
further expansion the bank facilities within
the joint venture with the Bank of Scotland
have been increased to £162m. 
Infrastructure Investment
Our Infrastructure Investment business 
has continued to successfully bid and win
work by drawing together the Group’s PFI,
construction and services activities under
the banner of Kier. This formula has been 
a key factor in much of our success to date. 
Financial close was reached on a £50m
scheme for Sheffield City Council in May
2005, our third schools project. Kier
Regional has started construction on the four
new schools and on completion Kier
Managed Services will provide the services
for the 25-year term. Our fourth schools
project achieved preferred bidder status 
in July 2005 for five new schools and the
refurbishment of one school in Norfolk. 
In health our fifth project was awarded
preferred bidder status in February 2005 
for a treatment centre in Ipswich. Upon
financial close, expected in the New Year,
Kier Regional will carry out the £26m
construction project and Kier Managed
Services will maintain it for 30 years after
completion. Our response to the ‘Building
Schools for the Future’ initiative is brought
together under the Kier Education banner
which achieved its first short-listing, in July
2005, as one of three bidding to Sheffield
City Council.
As well as investing in new projects this year
we have been developing the returns from
our current portfolio. In August 2004 we
refinanced our first PFI project, Hairmyres
Hospital which provided us with £8.1m of
cash after contributing 30% of the gain to
the Lanarkshire Health Board. No profit can
be recognised on the gain unless we dispose
of the investment but tax is payable resulting
in an exceptional tax charge of £2.5m in the
accounts. In December 2004 we disposed 
of our 25.5% investment in the Neath Port
Talbot Hospital concession to Secondary
Market Infrastructure Fund UK LP . We received
a cash consideration of £5.0m on the sale
and generated an exceptional profit of £2.1m.
Following this disposal our portfolio of
investments comprises 12 projects with a
committed investment of £20.3m. As the
secondary market for these investments
develops there may be opportunity to realise
future value from the portfolio. 
Pensions
The FRS 17 deficit in the Kier Group
Pension Scheme, after accounting for
deferred tax, has increased during the year 
Chief executive’s review 
Continued
01 Kier Sheffield LLP was joint winner in the 
Local Government Chronical annual awards, 
private partnership category in recognition of its
performance as part of a public/private partnership
with Sheffield City Council.
02 The Group’s ‘Don’t Walk By’ campaign
encourages employees to remain vigilant and point
out any potential health & safety hazards. Prize draws
are held at regular intervals giving participants the
chance to win a Red Letter Day experience voucher.
03 Apprentices on the Twigden Homes’
apprenticeship scheme, now in its fourth year. 
The scheme offers training in building trades
including plumbing, bricklaying, carpentry,
scaffolding, groundwork and dry lining.
01
02
03 17
Kier Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005
from a net £67.2m to £82.6m at 30 June
2005. The market value of the scheme’s
assets rose by 21% whilst the present value
of liabilities increased by 21%, largely
resulting from a 0.9% reduction in the
discount rate compared with the previous
year. The assumptions for longevity have
also changed contributing to an increase in
the deficit. The Group has continued to take
a responsible approach to the funding
requirements of the pension fund and in
March 2005, using the cash proceeds from
refinancing the Hairmyres PFI investment
and the sale of the investment in the Neath
Port Talbot Hospital concession, the Group
made a £12.0m special cash contribution to
the pension fund, without which the deficit
in the fund would have been greater. Under
current accounting standards this contribution
has no impact on operating profits and is
treated as a prepayment in the accounts.
Other changes have been made to the way
in which pension contributions are made
which will result in savings to the Group
and which are being contributed to the
pension fund in addition to normal
requirements.
Health & Safety
In an industry where incidents and accidents
still occur, Kier Group health & safety
standards are an integral part of the
management process. The Group remains
focused on the continuous improvement 
of health & safety standards throughout all
parts of the business and supply chain and 
is determined to play its part in creating an
industry that presents a healthy and safe
working environment and is an attractive
prospect for the employment of future
generations. The Group’s Accident 
Incidence Rate is 598 per 100,000 staff 
and subcontractors, comparing favourably
with the Health & Safety Executive
benchmark of 1,023.
The positive attitude displayed toward 
health & safety by Kier companies led to 
the award of one bronze, one silver and 
17 gold RoSPA awards and 13 British 
Safety Council awards. We were also
delighted that Kier Building Maintenance
won the RoSPA ‘Behavioural Safety and 
Best Practice’ award which is a great
achievement.
Kier people
I should like to thank each and every one 
of our employees for their contribution to
the advancement of the Group. It is the
continuing commitment, innovation,
professionalism and integrity of our people
that has made the Group the success it is
today and I am confident that the high quality
of our teams will take the Group forward to
achieve further growth in the future.
Summary and prospects
Kier has had a very successful year, with
strong performances achieved in all the
divisions. Looking forward the Group is in
excellent shape to continue its advancement.
The Construction order book is at record
levels containing a high proportion of good
quality negotiated work and framework
contracts. The local authority building
maintenance outsourcing sector continues to
provide our Support Services division with
good opportunities. In Homes our land-bank
consists of sites capable of delivering the
right product in the right location which
should provide further growth in unit sales
this year. In Property our portfolio of office,
retail and industrial developments continues
to enhance value and we are investing
further in new schemes; and in Infrastructure
Investment we have developed a good
pipeline of projects and remain committed
to the Government’s Private Finance
Initiative. More opportunities are being
presented to us where we are able to
involve the many disciplines in the Group to
provide mixed-use solutions to clients and a
total in-house service.
Ours is a long-term business with firm
foundations in place and I am confident that
the Group will continue to deliver further
growth in 2006 and beyond.
John Dodds
Chief Executive
+51 .5%
Increase in Property 
operating profit
£20.3m
Committed investment 
in the PFI portfolio
