 Kier Grou P Pl C Annu Al r ePor T AnD ACCoun TS 2009
overview
i am pleased to report that Kier Group plc has 
performed ahead of expectations in the year to 
30 June 2009 and has maintained strong levels of 
revenue, underlying profits and cash.
our Construction division has had a strong 
year achieving further growth in operating profits 
at record margins of 2.6% (2008: 2.3%) together 
with healthy average cash balances. We continue to 
focus on long-term relationships and have success-
fully extended the number of long-term public and 
private sector framework agreements in which we 
participate to 52 across the country. Public sector 
projects, particularly in the education sector, 
continue to underpin our order books representing 
56% of our contract awards for the year, with private 
sector enquiry levels holding up in many sectors. 
The infrastructure, power and energy sectors are 
providing significant opportunities in the uK, and 
overseas we are seeing improved prospects for work 
arising from the Middle east and Hong Kong.
in Support Services our order books have grown 
significantly, particularly with the recent award of 
the contract with n orth Tyneside Council to repair 
and maintain around 16,000 social housing units 
together with other council-owned property. We are 
also seeing an increase in the number of outsourcing 
opportunities for both the public and private sectors 
as organisations continue to examine their cost 
base and seek efficiencies.
o ur Partnership Homes division, which now encom-
passes the former Kier Homes, our private housing 
business, and Kier Partnership Homes, our social 
housing contracting business, performed in line with 
our expectations. Despite weak buyer sentiment 
and a continued lack of liquidity in the mortgage 
and general lending market, the division completed 
1,141 unit sales for the year (2008: 2,090) and 
generated an underlying operating profit of £1.1m 
(2008: £32.2m). o ur Developments business 
saw modest sales activity this year although we  
have been active on a number of projects and 
long-term opportunities.
More recently our Developments business has 
acquired a majority stake in a BSF programme for 
Kent County Council. This acquisition secures our 
position on the l ocal education Partnership board 
giving us access to a further £16m of PFi investment 
in education projects together with at least £300m 
of additional construction work for our regional 
contracting businesses as well as a 25-year facilities 
management contract for Kier Support Services. 
We have also, recently, exchanged contracts for 
the disposal of the uK Supreme Court for over  
£30m which provides an exit yield of around 5%  
based on post-tax disposal proceeds. Completion  
is expected imminently.
Financial performance
r evenue for the year was £2,145.6m, 
(2008: £2,374.2m) with good growth in Support 
Services offset, as expected, by a reduction in 
each of the Partnership Homes and Developments 
divisions. The Construction division saw a mild 
reduction in revenue largely as a result of a decline 
in private sector projects. underlying operating 
profit for the Group was 40% less than last year’s at 
£50.1m (2008: £83.8m), the decline attributable to 
our Partnership Homes and Developments divisions 
offsetting significant growth in Construction and 
Support Services.
John Dodds Chief executive
r evenue
£2,146m
Chie F exeCutive’s 
review
The good performance for the year is the result  
of our product diversification and spread of 
operations, the quality and commercial capability 
of our staff as well as our approach to risk 
management. The Group continues to be  
cash-positive with healthy order books in our 
Construction and Support Services businesses 
supported by framework agreements and public 
sector opportunities.
r evenue by division (%)
 Construction 70% 
 Support Services 20% 
 Partnership Homes 7%  
 Developments 3%
(2008: £2,374m) 06
/
07
ChieF exeCutive’s review
ConSTruCTion
SuPPor T Ser ViCeS
PAr TnerSHiP HoMeS
DeVeloPMenTS
exceptional items before tax amounted to a charge 
of £27.3m (2008: £24.6m) analysed as follows:
 £m
Pension credit arising from changes to the salary- 
related section of the Kier Group Pension Scheme 24.3
redundancy and reorganisation costs 
associated with our Partnership Homes division (1.8)
Provisions against land and work in progress 
 Partnership Homes (42.5) 
 Developments (7.3)
Total exceptional items (27.3)
underlying profit before tax for the year was 
£50.6m (2008: £87 .1m) after amortisation of intan-
gible assets, joint venture tax and before exceptional 
items and on the same basis adjusted earnings per 
share were 98.1p (2008: 170.6p).
Cash remains strong with month-end net 
balances in the year averaging £62m, ending the 
year at a net balance of £92.5m (2008: £143.9m). 
Healthy cash balances have been maintained in the 
Construction division which averaged £390m for the 
year, together with the Support Services division 
which averaged £20m. Within our Partnership 
Homes division we experienced a cash outflow, as 
predicted, of £22.3m largely due to land payment 
commitments and the high levels of work in progress 
built up prior to the commencement of the 2009 
financial year. This, coupled with our investment in 
the uK Supreme Court development and our equity 
investment in PFi and property joint ventures, led to 
an outflow of Group cash of £51m during the year.
group structure and strategic developments
For the year to 30 June 2009 Kier Group plc 
comprised four divisions: Construction, Support 
Services, Partnership Homes and Developments. 
The Group’s management structure and segmental 
analysis for reporting purposes are based on the 
four divisions.
During the year we successfully completed 
the merger of the former Kier Homes, our private 
housing development business, together with Kier 
Partnership Homes, our social housing contracting 
business, to form the enlarged Kier Partnership 
Homes division. This merger has combined the skills 
and relationships of the social housing management 
team with the land skills and marketing techniques 
of our private development team in order to focus on 
large-scale regeneration projects, to participate in 
housing PFi schemes, and to respond to the Homes 
and Community Agency’s (HCA’s) affordable housing 
strategy. indeed, Kier Partnership Homes enjoys 
‘Partner Status’ with the HCA and is able to apply 
for and receive grant directly.
The new division is better able to respond to 
the current market conditions with an emphasis 
on social housing provision within a mixed tenure 
context whilst continuing to develop out or seek 
disposal opportunities for the 6,150 plots of land 
with residential planning consent which we hold 
across our operational areas. With the change in 
emphasis towards providing an increasing number of 
social housing units, whilst retaining our private land 
development and marketing skills, Kier Partnership 
Homes will benefit from a reduced risk profile. The 
new business model requires less working capital 
than the previous model, arising from a higher 
proportion of social housing units developed on 
third-party land and, consequently, a higher return 
on capital employed.
1 2
£2,114m
£2,023m
£2,245m
£2,292m
Construction secured  
and probable order books
support services order books
08
08
09
09
1 GMAC headquarters, Bracknell 
Kier Facilities Services 
Welder James Mayhew worked on the 
GMAC headquarters Bracknell site. The 
110,000sq ft building incorporates a 
cutting-edge direct cooling system for the 
data servers and a 6,300 amp busbar 
system with a line voltage rating of  
400 volts.
2 university of east Anglia,  
Central Square redevelopment,  
Kier eastern 
General operative Craig Newman and  
the rest of the Kier eastern project team 
carried out works for the university of east 
Anglia to create a six-storey library link to 
the existing Grade ii listed building over a 
45-week period. The Central Square 
redevelopment also included the 
refurbishment of the existing library with 
sectional completions for each floor level, 
stairs and toilets, over a 50-week period. 
