 KiER GROuP Pl C ANNuAl R EPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010
Paul Sheffield, chief executive 
6
Chief executive’s  
review ONE iNTEGRATED BuSiNESS MODEl
Our integrated business model, combined with our resources, 
expertise and experience, allows us to offer a quality single 
solution for customers at every stage of the building, 
property, infrastructure and services life-cycle.
OuR COMBiNED STRENGTH: ONE KiER
Our flexible, customer-led solutions enable us to meet our 
clients’ requirements and to add value to their property 
infrastructure through a variety of combined, high-quality 
services that are both bespoke and seamless.
HOW WE WORK: OuR ViSiON
Our vision is to be the most highly respected company in the 
industry. To achieve this we pledge to offer our customers  
the best quality of service, to maintain our robust approach 
to corporate responsibility and to drive sustainable,  
profitable growth. 
1
2
3
We are committed to delivering quality and 
professionalism in the following ways:
7
CHiEf EXECuTiVE’S REViEw
1. ONE iNTEGRATED BuSiNESS MODEl
2. OuR COMBiNED STRENGTH: ONE KiER
3. HOW WE WORK: OuR ViSiON
KiER GROuP Pl C ANNuAl R EPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 1
ONE iNTEGRATED BuSiNESS mODEl
Our four divisions work together to deliver services across 
the entire built environment process. Our integrated 
approach covers planning and investment, development 
and design, construction and infrastructure works, as 
well as building maintenance and facilities management. 
At the end of the property life-cycle, we undertake 
refurbishment or complete regeneration.
Pl AN
iNVEST
DEVEl OP
For both public and private sector 
customers, we have the track record 
and resources to help plan, manage 
and discharge investment
requirements, whether for 
commercial, industrial, retail, 
residential or local authority property 
requirements. The Developments 
division via its property, project 
investment (our business for PFi 
projects) and asset partnership 
business teams can offer a range 
of possible property development 
solutions to maximise customers’ 
asset values.
Development is what we do. As an 
independent property developer, in 
joint venture with other operational/
financial partners, or as part of major 
third-party regeneration or mixed-use 
schemes. The Developments division 
combines with the Construction, 
Partnership Homes and Support 
Services divisions to offer customers 
a complete property development 
and infrastructure service for any 
scheme in the uK.
Planning, whether for local authority 
consent or in project planning itself, 
is the first series of hurdles to any 
building or infrastructure project. 
The Developments division, through 
its property development arm, 
has strategic property planning at 
the heart of its operations, whilst 
the Partnership Homes division 
undertakes planning solutions for all 
of its residential schemes across the 
uK. Our in-house expertise in design 
and build is backed by our 3D and 4D 
modelling and visualisation tools.
8 KiER GROuP Pl C ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010
CONSTRuCTiON p16
PARTNERSHiP HOMES p26 
DEVEl OPMENTS p30 
SuPPORT SERViCES p22 CHiEf EXECuTiVE’S REViEw
1. ONE iNTEGRATED BuSiNESS MODEl
2. OuR COMBiNED STRENGTH: ONE KiER
3. HOW WE WORK: OuR ViSiON
CONSTRuCT
MAiNTAiN
REFuRBiSH
REGENERATE
We have an enviable track record 
in refurbishing, converting and 
modernising existing building stock, 
whether inner-city commercial 
and retail units, local government 
buildings, mixed-use schemes or 
residential projects. We are also 
recognised as one of the leading 
contractors for refurbishing and 
renovating listed and historic 
buildings, with many examples 
across the uK.
Turning full circle in the property 
life-cycle, we have the experience
and capabilities to completely 
regenerate brownfield sites or 
redundant buildings, including 
demolition, remediation of 
contaminated land, planning, 
ground and civil engineering,  
design & build services for 
commercial, residential, retail 
and/or industrial redevelopment. 
Whether full turnkey management 
and delivery or individual  
packages, we can provide any  
redevelopment solutions.
With 32 regional offices and the 
experience and expertise provided by 
some 5,200 employees worldwide in 
our construction businesses, major 
projects unit and civil engineering 
business, we can construct just 
about anything anywhere in the uK 
and overseas. When allied to the 
expertise of our Partnership Homes 
division, these resources and track 
record of building across every major 
market sector ensure that we can 
meet any customer’s requirements.
Already maintaining over 240,000 
homes across the uK and providing 
facilities management services 
to a wide range of both private 
and public sector customers, we 
are better placed than most of 
our peers to provide the complete 
range of both reactive and planned 
maintenance services as well as 
waste collection and recycling, street 
scene and grounds maintenance. 
These services, together with the 
design, installation and maintenance 
of full-scale M&E projects, give 
us capabilities in all maintenance 
services.
9
CHiEf EXECuTiVE’S REViEw
1. ONE iNTEGRATED BuSiNESS MODEl
2. OuR COMBiNED STRENGTH: ONE KiER
3. HOW WE WORK: OuR ViSiON
KiER GROuP Pl C ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 2
OuR COmBiNED STRENGTH: ONE KiER
Whatever a customer requires at any stage of the built 
environment life-cycle, one or more of our businesses 
can bring them solutions, individually or combined, 
locally or nationally. Our network of regional offices 
and our strong local relationships ensure that we 
can supply both the skills and the resources to meet 
customer demands, any time, anywhere.
Key core skills
•  in-house design &  
planning capability
•  Expertise in Code for 
Sustainable Homes
•  Skills to integrate  
mixed-tenure sales
•  HCA Developer  
Partner status
•  Affordable housing 
specialist
•  Regeneration expertise
Key projects
•  Ordnance Survey HQ, 
Southampton
•  Network Rail joint venture 
station developments
•  Norfolk & Suffolk Police 
investigation centres
•  Sheffield City Council 
non-residential  
property portfolio
Key facts
Total homes delivered
Employees
PFi schemes in portfolio
Properties serviced 
within Sheffield City
Properties/sites  
under development
Railway stations  
in development
Employees
Offices & depots 
in the uK
Homes being  
maintained
Employees
Offices across uK
Employees (expatriate & 
locally employed) working 
on overseas contracts
Average number of 
employees during the year
Private homes
Social housing
Plots in land bank
25
240,000
32
1,287
499
561
13
5,781
1,060
6,700
26
5,700
303
8
101
Key facts
Key facts
Key facts
3,945
PARTNERSHiP HOMES p26
•  Mixed-tenure/affordable homes
•  Private homes
SuPPORT SERViCES p22
•  Building Maintenance 
 – Reactive & planned 
 – l ocal authorities & housing associations
•  Facilities Services 
 – Facilities management & maintenance 
 – M&E installation & maintenance
•  Street Services 
 – Waste collection & recycling 
 – Street scene & grounds maintenance
•  Plant 
 – internal & external plant hire
CONSTRuCTiON p16
• Regional building contractors 
• Major projects 
•  Construction 
 – Civil engineering 
 – infrastructure 
 – Mining 
 – Overseas
• Technical services
DEVEl OPMENTS p30
•  Property  
 –  Commercial, offices, retail, industrial, 
mixed-use
•   Project investment 
 – Delivering private finance initiatives
•  Asset Partnership Services 
 –  l ocal authority property management & 
development
Key customers
• Ministry of Justice
• NHS
• Network Rail
• united utilities
• EDF Energy
• Sainsbury’s
• l ocal authorities
•  Overseas (Abu Dhabi/
Jamaica/Saudi Arabia/ 
Hong Kong)
Key contracts
• Sheffield City Council
• Homes for islington
• North Tyneside Council
•  Stoke-on-Trent City Council
• Hull City Council
•  Barnsley Metropolitan 
Borough Council
•  Harlow District Council
• Harrow Council
10 KiER GROuP Pl C ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 CHiEf EXECuTiVE’S REViEw
1. ONE iNTEGRATED BuSiNESS MODEl
2. OuR COMBiNED STRENGTH: ONE KiER
3. HOW WE WORK: OuR ViSiON
Full Y iNTEGRATED SOlu TiONS
Kier has the ability to offer customers a completely integrated 
turnkey solution to the built environment by providing the full 
range of investment (property development or PFi), planning and 
design, construction, including M&E design and installation, 
infrastructure provision, building maintenance, soft and hard 
facilities management and regeneration, by combining the 
appropriate resources of our four divisions.
 
Key projects:
Solum Regeneration – Kier & Network Rail JV; Ordnance Survey 
HQ at Adanac Park – multi Kier business unit delivery through 
Kier Property; the Kier Project investment PFi Norfolk & Suffolk 
Police investigation units; Reading Central – a Kier Property & 
Kier Regional delivered project.
STRATEGiC Alli ANCES
Kier combines the resources of its various business units  
to deliver coordinated and consistent services bespoke to  
key market sector customers (and the specific needs and 
specialisations of their sector requirements). These strategic 
alliances are usually delivered nationwide or regionally  
through framework agreements or other forms of  
partnering with customers.
 
Key alliances:
Airports, custodial, education, health, retail, leisure, power, rail, 
water, public services, greening & carbon reduction retrofitting. 
ADDiNG VAlu E
in partnership with customers, any part of the Kier business 
delivering an existing project or service is able to provide  
added value to customers by bringing in other parts of the  
Group both upstream and downstream in the property process.  
in this way our offering can be broadened by bringing planning, 
investment, general construction, housebuilding, FM and/or 
other resources to help a customer whose needs may change, 
expand or diversify.
Recent service contracts leading to value-added additional 
services to meet customer requirements:
Kier North Tyneside building maintenance project;  
Kier Sheffield ll P with associated Kier Asset Partnership 
Services in Sheffield.
EVOl ViNG NEW SERViCES
Kier has the financial strength, the ability and the resources  
to adapt its offering of services to meet any customer’s 
requirements in the built environment. Whether through 
acquisition or through creating and developing new areas of 
expertise and resources within the Group, we are proactive in 
providing solutions where a customer’s need has been identified. 
Recent examples of new Kier services:
Kier Waste – acquisition of Pure Recycling facility and  
waste services.
Kier Energy innovations – retrofitting carbon reduction solutions  
in the built environment.
Kier Public Sector Services – bundled services to support  
local authorities. 
Kier Compliance Services – fire, safety and environmental 
regulatory compliance.
11 KiER GROuP Pl C ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010
ONE KiER
Our solutions to meet customers’ 
requirements are manifested in 
several different business unit 
combinations – each of which 
represents one single, coordinated 
and consistent Kier service. HOw w E w ORK: OuR ViSiON
By providing our customers with the highest possible 
quality of service and through sustainable, profitable 
growth, our vision is to be the most highly respected 
company in the industry. By maintaining our core  
values and remaining focused on improvement & 
delivery, our vision will become reality. 
HOw  managing responsibility
w HAT  Professionally delivering quality
What Kier and its constituent parts do as a business 
is to provide a full range of quality services to plan, 
invest in, build, manage, maintain and service the 
built environment nationwide and overseas. We build 
upon relationships with customers by offering our 
services through individual business units or a 
combination of businesses customised to best meet 
the specific requirements of each customer.
w HO  Nurturing stakeholder relationships
Who we work with and for is of vital importance to 
Kier. We value customers and aim to deliver the 
highest quality of services in all we do and therefore 
our supply chain partners, subcontractors and 
suppliers alike, are key to enabling us to deliver the 
best quality of product and service. We could not do 
this without our other key component in the mix of 
stakeholders – our employees, their quality and 
professionalism. Finally, all these stakeholders 
combine to give value to our shareholders and 
society at large, our broadest stakeholders – the 
public and the communities within which we work.
Corporate governance p52
• The Code
• Board of directors
• Board evaluation
• Audit Committee
• Remuneration Committee
• Nomination Committee
• internal control 
• Relations with shareholders
Brand management
Our brand – the Kier name and  
reputation – is of fundamental value  
and has taken much time and effort from 
dedicated staff to establish. We are 
committed to protecting, nurturing and 
enhancing the Kier brand through the 
delivery of our corporate vision and values. 
“By maintaining our core values and 
remaining focused on improvement and 
delivery, our vision will become a reality.”
Our core values: 
• Be enthusiastic, open & honest
• Be proactive, committed & safe 
• Be a team 
• Be Kier
Business ethics 
www.kier.co.uk/responsibility/ethics
• Compliance with the code
• Duty to report non-compliance
•  Health, safety & environmental 
protection
• Equal opportunity & workplace diversity
• Human rights
• Business ethics & legal compliance
• Conflicts of interest
• improper payments
•  Compliance with laws prohibiting 
anti-competitive activity
• Supplier relations
integrated financial control
Our business model delivers a solid return 
for our shareholders. Cash generated 
from Construction & Support Services is 
invested in strategic acquisitions including 
property developments and private  
finance initiatives.
Business risks p44
• Macro-economic climate
• Contract & build 
•  l and & property development acquisition
• investment
• People 
• l egal & regulatory
•  Health, safety & environmental
• information technology 
• Pensions
• Counterparty
•  Availability of finance & bonding facilities
•  Reputation
Corporate responsibility p35 
• Environment & climate change
• Workplace health & safety
• Workplace employees & training
• Marketplace customers & supply chain
• Community engagement
• Considerate Constructors Scheme
12 KiER GROuP Pl C ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010
3  14 KiER GROuP Pl C ANNuAl R EPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010
Overview
The year to 30 June 2010 has been another 
successful one for the Group. underlying profit before 
tax is ahead of last year, revenues are at similar 
levels to last year and cash generation has been very 
strong, closing the year at a record level.
Our integrated business model continues to 
provide Kier with many unique opportunities brought 
about by our financing and planning skills as well 
as our strong track record of construction delivery 
and client service.
f inancial performance
Revenue for the year at £2,098.7m was slightly 
below last year’s £2,145.6m. Support Services and 
Partnership Homes both achieved growth in revenues 
and in Construction uK revenue grew marginally 
offsetting a decline in overseas revenues as a conse-
quence of a contraction in our overseas markets. 
underlying operating profit for the Group, after 
the amortisation of intangible assets, was 12.8% 
ahead of last year at £56.5m (2009: £50.1m), again 
achieved from growth in Support Services together 
with Partnership Homes which benefited from land 
disposals in the year.
Exceptional items amounted to a net gain of 
£2.2m for the year (2009: net charge of £27.3m) 
as follows:
•   a gain of £16.0m arising from changes announced 
in the recent Budget which apply to local authority 
pension schemes and in our particular case 
to the South Yorkshire Pension Fund in which 
employees of Kier Sheffield ll P participate;
•   a £4.2m gain arising from the sale of two PFi 
investments; offset by
•   a provision of £18.0m in respect of a fine levied 
by the Office of Fair Trading following its inves-
tigation into the construction industry. We have 
appealed against the amount of the fine.
Profit before tax for the year was 9.7% ahead 
of last year’s at £55.5m (2009: £50.6m) after 
the amortisation of intangible assets and 
before exceptional items and on the same basis 
earnings per share were 17.7% ahead at 115.5p  
(2009: 98.1p) benefiting in part from a 6% reduction 
in our effective tax rate following the agreement of 
certain issues with HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) 
this year.
The trading result for the year was supported by 
strong cash generation. Overall there was an inflow 
of £82.7m resulting in record year-end net funds of 
£175.2m (2009: £92.5m), reflecting the sale of 
the uK Supreme Court asset which generated over 
£30m, together with a strong cash performance 
from the Construction division and a further 
unwinding of our cash investment in the Partnership  
Homes division.
Group structure and strategic developments
Our integrated business model is supported by 
four divisions: Construction, Support Services, 
Partnership Homes and Developments. The Group’s 
management structure and segmental analysis for 
reporting purposes are based on these four divisions.
Our strategy is to continue to focus on growth 
areas in each of our divisions, enhanced by the 
many opportunities that arise through our integrated 
model. By drawing on our strong relationships with 
both private and public sector clients, Kier is able 
to offer integrated property solutions through the 
provision of a range of services including investment, 
planning and design, construction, infrastructure 
provision, building maintenance, soft and hard 
facilities management and regeneration; combined 
services which few other single organisations are 
equipped to offer.
Our Developments team, which includes financial 
and planning expertise, is a key catalyst for gener-
ating integrated opportunities across the Group. 
its relationships with local authorities continue 
to provide the Group with the potential to consol-
idate and develop council-owned properties for the 
benefit of both clients and Kier. The division will 
require more cash investment in the short-term 
Chief executive’s review
Continued
Revenue
£2,099m
(2009: £2,146m)
Profit before tax
(after the amortisation of intangible assets and before exceptional items)
£55.5m +9.7%
(2009: £50.6m)
Earnings per share
(after the amortisation of intangible assets and before exceptional items)
115.5p +17.7%
(2009: 98.1p)
Net cash balances
£175.2m
(2009: £92.5m)
Cash inflow
+£82.7m
Key highlights
Chief executive Paul Sheffield 
provides quarterly video webcasts 
discussing the Group’s performance. 
These are available on our website. 
www.kier.co.uk   15
as opportunities for further development arise. 
However, we will continue our strategy of pursuing 
largely non-speculative development by ensuring 
we secure pre-lets or pre-sales prior to the 
commencement of construction.
in Construction, conditions remain challenging, 
principally as a consequence of financial restrictions 
on our public sector clients. However our strong 
and diverse business model enables us to pursue 
a range of opportunities, particularly those in areas 
of non-discretionary investment, such as:
•   power, where we are market leader in the 
provision of civil engineering works;
•  utilities; and
•   waste, a strong and growing market including 
recycling and power generating opportunities.
Other growth areas include:
•  retail;
•   rail, including opportunities arising out of Crossrail; 
•   international projects, where we are rebuilding 
our business from a low base in Saudi Arabia, 
Abu Dhabi and Hong Kong; and
•   mixed-use developments, across all Kier divisions.
in Support Services, where we anticipate 
achieving annual revenues in excess of £500m 
by 2012, the economic environment in which we 
find ourselves is providing opportunities for our 
business, particularly in outsourcing contracts. 
Our bidding teams are busier then ever helping our 
local authority partners to address the budgetary 
pressures which they are facing by providing 
innovative funding and development solutions and 
assisting them in their desire to bundle several 
services into one contract.
The last few years have seen our housing 
business refocus more heavily on social and 
affordable housing provision. Kier Partnership 
Homes has the capability, through its relationships 
with public sector bodies and housing associations, 
to deliver social and mixed-tenure dwellings across 
the country. Whilst its origins were in private devel-
opment, as a result of which the land bank contains 
around 5,700 plots, the selling and marketing skills 
required for mixed-use development combine well 
with our ability to identify innovative planning as 
well as financing solutions to deliver these devel-
opments. The opportunities arising out of our 
position on the Homes and Communities Agency 
(HCA) delivery partner panel should also yield further 
substantial regeneration prospects. The restruc-
tured model is likely to provide annual revenues 
in the medium-term of around £300m at blended 
operating margins of around 7% and a lower working 
capital requirement than is necessary for a pure 
private housebuilding business. in the meantime 
our land bank is a valuable asset, becoming more 
so as planning restrictions bite further, which we 
will develop or sell over time in order to unlock our 
cash investment.
1.  Sainsbury l aboratory Complex, 
Cambridge
Kier Build
Pictured: Kier Group chief executive 
Paul Sheffield on site at the university  
of Cambridge’s Sainsbury l aboratory 
with Kier Build operations director 
l ouisa Finlay (left) and project 
manager Nick Mann (right). 
1
CHiEf EXECuTiVE’S REViEw
KiER GROuP Pl C ANNuAl R EPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010
