 4
 
The Group’s cash performance has remained exceptionally 
strong, particularly within our Construction and Services 
divisions, with average Group month-end net cash of 
£129m (2010: £95m). 
Chairman’s statement
Net cash 
(at 30 June 2011)
£165m
(2010: £175m)
Olaf Kier arrives in Britain after graduating with honours  
from the Copenhagen University of Engineering
1922
J Lotz and Kier contracting firm established 1928
J L Kier & Co Ltd partnership incorporated 1932
Lotz returns to Denmark and Ove Arup takes his 
place as a director of J L Kier
1934
Wimbledon office destroyed by bombing 1940
Contract awarded to a joint venture of Nuttall, Kier 
and some of the leading Dutch contractors for 
 the rebuilding of Rotterdam Harbour
1945
Turnover rapidly increased when the company went public 1963
Charles Brand & Son Limited, a heavy civil engineering and 
 mining contractor, becomes part of Kier
1971
Robert Marriott and Company Limited joins the Group 1972
Kier and W & C French merge to form French Kier  
Holdings Limited
1973
William Moss Group PLC acquired by French Kier 1984
Kier Group plc becomes Britain’s first major contractor to 
 be employee-owned
1992
Kier floated on the stock market 1996
Kier launches Services division 2001
Kier signs building maintenance partnership with  
Sheffield City Council
2003
Kier forms joint venture with Network Rail to develop  
stations in SE London
2008
Kier starts work on £600m outsourcing contract for  
North Tyneside Council
2009
Kier acquires property portfolio from Lloyds for £91m 2011
Kier historic milestones
Phil White 
Chairman Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
5
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
I am pleased to report impressive results  
for Kier Group plc for the year ended  
30 June 2011. Underlying profit before tax, 
before the amortisation of intangible assets 
and exceptional items, improved 24% to 
£68.9m (2010: £55.5m excluding Homes 
land transaction) and earnings per share on 
the same basis increased 26% to 148.4p 
(2010: 117.7p), enhanced by a 2% reduction 
in the effective tax rate.
Overall, revenue increased to £2,179m 
(2010: £2,099m) displaying underlying 
growth in all four divisions of the Group 
and the strength of our business.
Particularly pleasing were the operating 
margins, which increased in our Construction 
division to 2.7% (2010: 2.6%) and remained 
strong in our Services division at 4.5% 
(2010: 4.5%). The Homes and Property 
divisions also saw an increase in underlying 
operating margin.
There were exceptional items that totalled 
a net credit before tax of £7.0m (2010: 
charge of £2.0m). These comprised inflation 
changes to the Kier Group Pension Scheme, 
a reduction in the fine levied by the Office of 
Fair Trading, a write-down in the value of land 
and work in progress following recent land 
sales and a further review, and external costs 
relating to two acquisitions in the year.
The Group’s cash performance has remained 
exceptionally strong, particularly within our 
Construction and Services divisions, with 
average Group month-end net cash of £129m 
(2010: £95m). In our Property division, 
following the £35m first-stage payment for 
the property portfolio from Lloyds, we were 
pleased to see the early sale of two assets 
recoup much of that outlay and support a 
Group net cash position at 30 June of £165m 
(2010: £175m).
Taking into account the performance of the 
Group and its cash position, and continuing 
the Group’s progressive dividend policy, 
the Board proposes to increase the total 
dividend for the year by 10% to 64p (2010: 
58p), which is more than twice covered by 
adjusted earnings per share and reflects the 
Board’s confidence in the business going 
forward. The final dividend of 44p will be paid 
on 30 November 2011 to shareholders on the 
register on 23 September 2011 and there will 
be a scrip dividend alternative.
Board changes
As we announced at the time of our interim 
results in February, Dick Simkin, the executive 
director for the Property division, retired at 
the end of the 2011 financial year and Ian 
Lawson, executive director for the Services 
and Homes divisions, has taken over the role 
from 1 July 2011. We would like to thank Dick 
for his excellent contribution to the Group and 
we wish him well in his retirement.
In September 2010, we announced that 
Simon Leathes, non-executive director and 
chairman of the Audit Committee, would 
also be stepping down from the Board at the 
Company’s 2010 annual general meeting 
after nearly ten years. Richard Bailey, who 
joined the Board on 1 October 2010, has 
succeeded him.
Recently there has been debate generally 
about board diversity and, in particular,  
the representation of women in the 
boardrooms of FTSE companies. The Board 
acknowledges the recommendations from 
Lord Davies of Abersoch’s report entitled 
‘Women on Boards’, which highlights the 
value of effective diversity policies. As 
a Board, we are considering how best to 
implement the key recommendations of this 
report, whilst recognising the importance 
of maintaining an appropriate balance of 
independence, skills and experience. In 
addition, the Group’s corporate responsibility 
committee, which is chaired by the chief 
executive and reports regularly to the Board, 
is currently reviewing the Group’s diversity, 
equality and inclusion policies.
Outlook
Over the last few years, we have positioned 
ourselves to capitalise on what we perceive 
as the growth markets. Whilst market 
conditions in 2012 will remain challenging, 
our order books in the Construction and 
Services divisions were at a healthy level 
of £4.3bn. The Construction order book 
(secured and probable) stood at £2.3bn (June 
2010: £2.1bn) and represented 95% of the 
division’s targeted revenue for 2012 and 
46% of its targeted revenue for 2013, which 
was slightly ahead of normal, and we expect 
our operating margins to remain firmly above 
2%. Our order book in Services stood at 
£2.0bn (2010: £2.1bn), giving good forward 
visibility of workload which, coupled with a 
strong pipeline of further opportunities, will 
translate into revenue growth for the division 
in the year to June 2013. Moreover, we expect 
our operating margins to be maintained at 
a resilient 4.5%.
The Property division remains a key generator 
of integrated opportunities for the Group. 
With increased scale, particularly following 
the acquisition of the property portfolio 
from Lloyds, the division is actively working 
on a variety of development schemes. 
When coupled with the recent disposals 
of three of our Private Finance Initiative 
(PFI) investments, in line with our strategy 
of selectively disposing of our mature PFI 
investments, it now means that the Property 
division is, and will continue to be, one of the 
key contributors to the Group’s performance.
Our refocused Homes division is continuing 
to pursue the growing opportunities in 
the mixed tenure market and we remain 
committed to developing and disposing of 
parcels of land over time in order to reduce 
the disproportionate size of our land bank 
and to realise cash, which will be invested 
in the Group’s future growth.
Our integrated business model continues 
to provide a good breadth of opportunities 
and, with our strong track record of delivery, 
the Group is well placed to make further 
progress in the new financial year.
Phil White
Chairman
Phil White (Chairman) and Paul Sheffield (Chief 
Executive) at our Epsom Station site, a Solum 
Regeneration project being delivered by Kier. 6
 
We remain a robust and 
sustainable business, with 
committed and professional 
staff in whom we have 
confidence and their 
abilities will underpin further 
progress by the Group in 
the new financial year.
Chief Executive’s review
Overview
Kier has had another successful year to 
30 June 2011, with underlying revenue and 
profit before tax ahead of last year. This 
good performance has been supported by 
strong cash generation, with an average 
Group month-end net cash balance of 
£129m (June 2010: £95m).
Much hard work has produced these strong 
results. Our broad skill base and integrated 
business model continue to provide Kier with 
a wide range of opportunities across our 
different divisions. Our diversity and flexibility, 
when combined with our track record of 
delivery and customer service, ensures that 
we are in a position to significantly benefit 
from the varying market opportunities and 
be the partner of choice for our customers.
Financial performance
Total  
revenue
£m
Operating 
profit *  
£m
Construction 1,445 39.3
Services 484 21.7
Property 97 11.1
Homes 153 4.2
Centre – (5.2)
2,179 71.1
*  Before exceptional items and amortisation 
of intangible assets
Revenue for the year at £2,179m was slightly 
higher than last year (£2,099m). Underlying 
growth was achieved in all divisions, most 
notably in Property following the acquisition 
of the property portfolio from Lloyds; 
however, it is the quality of our revenue that 
is most pleasing.
Operating profit for the Group, before the 
amortisation of intangible assets, was 23% 
ahead of last year at £71.1m (2010: £57.7m 
excluding Homes land transaction) principally 
because of the significant operating margin 
of 2.7% in Construction and the resilient 
operating margin of 4.5% in Services,both 
of which were underpinned by strong cash 
generation.
Exceptional items amounted to a net credit 
before tax of £7.0m for the year (2010: net 
charge of £2.0m), as follows:
•   a gain of £25.7m arising from inflation 
changes (RPI to CPI) announced in the 
2010 Budget which have been applied 
to the Kier Group Pension Scheme;
•   a reduction in the fine levied by the Office 
of Fair Trading (OFT), from £18.0m to 
£1.7m, with associated costs of £0.7m 
incurred in relation to our appeal;
•   a charge of £33.5m relating to a 
write-down of our land and work in 
progress following a further review and 
in light of the values received from recent 
land sales; and 
•   external costs of £0.8m relating to the 
acquisitions of Beco Limited (Beco) 
and the property portfolio from Lloyds.
Profit before tax*
£68.9m
(2010: £55.5m **)
*   Before exceptional items and amortisation of 
intangible assets
**  Excluding Homes 2010 one-off land transaction  
profit of £7.1m
Paul Sheffield 
Chief Executive Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
7
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
The strengths of our 
integrated business model
By providing our customers with the highest 
possible quality of service and through 
sustainable, profitable growth, our vision is 
to be the most highly respected company in 
the industry. By maintaining our core values 
and remaining focused on improvement and 
delivery, our vision will become reality. 
1.  Managing responsibility
We believe profoundly that by managing 
our corporate responsibilities, our brand, 
business risks, governance, ethics and 
finances, we manage responsibly.
2.  Delivering quality
What Kier and its constituent parts do as a 
business is to provide a full range of quality 
services to plan, invest in, build, manage, 
maintain and service the built environment 
nationwide and overseas.
3.  Nurturing stakeholder relationships
We value customers and aim to deliver 
the highest quality of services in all we 
do and therefore our supply chain partners, 
subcontractors and suppliers alike, are key 
to enabling us to deliver the best quality of 
product and service.
Profit before tax, before the amortisation 
of intangible assets and exceptional items, 
for the year was 24% ahead of last year at 
£68.9m (2010: £55.5m excluding Homes land 
transaction). On the same basis, earnings per 
share was 26% ahead at 148.4p (2010: 117.7p 
excluding Homes land transaction).
The trading result for the year was 
underpinned by strong cash generation, 
with high average Group month-end net cash 
balances of £129m (June 2010: £95m) after 
investment of approximately £50m during 
the year including the property portfolio from 
Lloyds, deferred land payments, further 
investment in Pure Recycling, and the 
acquisition of Beco.
Group structure and strategic developments
Four divisions support our integrated business 
model: Construction, Services, Property and 
Homes. The Group’s management structure 
and segmental analysis for reporting purposes 
for the year to 30 June 2011 are based on 
these four divisions.
We are able to offer integrated solutions 
through the provision of a range of services 
including investment, planning and design, 
construction, maintenance, soft and hard 
facilities management, waste, energy and 
environmental services and regeneration. 
This is a combination of services, which few 
other organisations can offer and makes 
us resilient during the current challenging 
economic environment. 
How we are managed
Kier Group is managed through a short, 
clear and efficient structure that gives a fully 
integrated and coordinated approach which 
remains both adaptable and agile to meet 
rapidly changing market requirements.
Divisional Boards
Construction
Board of Directors
Executive Board
Executive Management Team
Homes
Epsom Station
Work progressing at Epsom Station – one of 
several stations in the south-east and London 
that are the subject of redevelopment by Solum 
Regeneration, a joint venture between Network Rail 
and Kier Property. As part of the project, Kier is 
undertaking the building and civil engineering works 
for a mixed-use scheme to deliver improvements to 
the station and provide retail space, a hotel, parking 
and 124 high quality apartments.
Services Property
One 
Kier
Full range
of services
Customers                        Supply chain partners                  Investment analysts                         Employees
 
        Other stakeholders                             The media                       Communities and the public                   Shareholders  
           
Business 
risks
Corporate
responsibility
Corporate
governance
Brand
management
Business
ethics
Integrated
financial
management
1
2
3
