 04 —— Kier Group plc 
Overview
Chairman’s
statement
“ The Group 
delivered a  
resilient cash 
performance, 
despite the 
challenging  
working capital 
environment”
I am pleased to report a solid set of 
results for Kier Group plc (Kier) for the 
year ended 30 June 2013. Underlying 
profit before tax* of £63.4m (2012: 
£70.0m) and earnings per share* of 
136.2p (2012: 156.8p) were in line 
with our expectations. 
The Group delivered a resilient cash 
performance, despite the challenging 
working capital environment. Average 
Group month-end net debt was £4m 
(2012: average month-end net cash of 
£95m) as a result of the timing of our 
property transactions some of which 
completed in the last quarter of the 
financial year and after investment 
during the year of £77m, mainly in our 
Property and Construction businesses. 
This produced a Group net cash 
position at 30 June 2013 of £60m 
(2012: £129m).
Phil White
Chairman
Taking into account the performance 
of the Group, its strengthened capital 
structure and continuing the Group’s 
progressive dividend policy, the Board 
proposes to increase the total dividend 
for the year by 3% to 68p (2012: 66p), 
which is well covered by underlying 
earnings per share and reflects the 
Board’s confidence in the business.  
The final dividend of 46.5p will be paid 
on 27 November 2013 to shareholders 
on the register at close of business on 
20 September 2013. There will be a 
scrip dividend alternative.
*  Underlying operating profits and margins, pre-tax profits and EPS are stated before amortisation of 
intangible assets relating to contract rights of £3.4m (2012: £3.4m) and exceptional items totalling 
£17.0m (2012: £3.6m). Annual Report and Accounts 2013 —— 05   
Board changes
During the year, the Board undertook a 
review of the management structure of 
the Group, following which a decision 
was taken to introduce the role of chief 
operating officer (COO) to strengthen 
and integrate Kier’s operating 
processes across the enlarged Group 
and ensure that they are implemented 
in a cohesive and consistent way. 
Steve Bowcott was appointed to 
this role and is responsible for 
the operational efficiency of both 
the Construction and the Services 
divisions. In addition to his current 
responsibilities, Haydn Mursell, the 
Group finance director, has assumed 
operational responsibility for the 
Property division. As a result of these 
changes Ian Lawson retired as a 
director from the Board in June. 
I am confident that the introduction 
of the COO role, together with clearly 
defined roles and responsibilities for 
each of the executive management 
team, will enable the business to 
continue to deliver a strong trading 
performance.
Outlook 
We have secured a number of 
significant contract wins across all 
of our businesses which means that 
we have begun the 2014 financial 
year in a good position, with all of the 
Construction division’s targeted revenue 
and 95% of the Services division’s 
targeted revenue currently secured  
and probable. 
Having completed the acquisition of 
May Gurney in July, our combined order 
book now stands at £5.9bn across 
those divisions and stretches well 
beyond 2020. In addition, the Property 
division has a pipeline of £1.5bn and 
will be a key contributor to the Group 
results in the coming years.
The comprehensive review of our 
business that we started earlier in 
the year is substantially complete 
and our attention remains focused 
on the successful integration of May 
Gurney. This comes at a time when the 
macroeconomic outlook is beginning to 
improve in all our markets, positioning 
the Group for growth.
The role of our committees
Board of Directors
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the success of the Company. The Board 
develops the Group’s strategy, monitors and reviews its business performance and 
controls risk. The Board has put in place reporting processes and other controls which 
are designed to ensure that it is provided with relevant information on a timely basis, 
which set authorisation limits and which reserve certain significant matters for the Board 
or its committees.
Risk Management and Audit Committee
Chair Richard Bailey
The Risk Management and Audit Committee 
comprises the non-executive directors. 
Richard Bailey, a chartered accountant with 
recent and relevant financial experience, 
is the chairman of the committee. The 
committee is responsible for monitoring and 
reviewing the Group’s internal audit function. 
The director responsible for internal audit 
meets the chairman of the committee 
to discuss the function and the Group’s 
internal controls. The committee is also 
responsible for monitoring and reviewing the 
performance, independence and objectivity 
of KPMG, the external auditor.
Nomination Committee
Chair Amanda Mellor
The Nomination Committee comprises  
the Group’s non-executive directors. 
Amanda Mellor is the chair of the 
committee. The committee is responsible 
for monitoring the composition and balance 
of the Board, making recommendations to 
the Board on new Board appointments and 
succession planning.
Remuneration Committee
Chair Chris Geoghegan
The Remuneration Committee comprises 
the non-executive directors. Chris 
Geoghegan is the chairman of the 
committee. The committee makes 
recommendations to the Board on the 
Company’s framework of executive 
remuneration and determines, on its 
behalf, specific remuneration packages 
for each of the executive directors. 
In doing so, it takes the advice of 
independent external consultants.
Safety, Health and Environment 
Committee (SHE Committee)
Chair Nick Winser
The SHE Committee comprises Nick 
Winser and Amanda Mellor, although the 
executive directors of the Group and the 
health and safety director are invited, 
and expected, to attend meetings, unless 
they are notified to the contrary. The 
committee is responsible for assisting 
the Board with respect to reviewing (i) the 
Group’s strategy with respect to safety, 
health and environmental (SHE) matters, 
(ii) the Group’s exposure to SHE risks and 
(iii) Group-wide SHE initiatives, policies 
and procedures and monitoring the 
Group’s performance against SHE targets.
Overview Financial statements Governance Financial review Corporate responsibility Operational review
