 Chief Executive’s strategic review 
New chief executive, Haydn Mursell, talks about his strategic 
vision for Kier designed to create sustainable value for clients 
and shareholders.
Revenue
£2,985m +51%
(2013: £1,983m)
Underlying operating profit*
£88.0m +59%
(2013: £55.5m)
†
Combined Construction  
and Services order book
£6.2bn +47%
(2013: £4.3bn)
Q You’ve been chief executive of Kier for only 
a short time. What have been your main priorities 
to date?
After four years as Kier’s finance director, I feel privileged 
to take over as chief executive, particularly at a time 
when markets appear to be recovering after a number of 
years of recession. I would like to thank my predecessor, 
Paul Sheffield, who steered Kier during these challenging 
years whilst maintaining excellent client relationships. 
We are now positioned to exploit the opportunities 
which are available to us across all our target markets.
My key priority since taking up the post has been to 
meet as many of our clients as possible and learn from their 
experience of working with us. I have also spent time with 
our people, listening to their feedback and looking at how 
we continue to make Kier a stimulating and enjoyable place 
to work. We want and need a motivated, ambitious team to 
deliver our strategic goals, Vision 2020.
I would like to thank everyone in Kier for taking on all the 
challenges brought by the significant changes that have 
taken place in the business during this year, as a result of 
the May Gurney acquisition, and the drive to improve the 
efficiency and cost base of the Group.
Over the next few months, my focus will be on communicating 
Vision 2020 throughout the Group. I shall highlight the wide 
spectrum of capabilities that we can now offer to our clients, 
and the opportunity we have to accelerate growth in our 
core markets.
Q Safety is a big aspect of your operations, 
where does this fit into your priorities?
Operating safely is a must. Every accident is preventable. It 
is part of our future vision to have a zero Accident Incidence 
Rate (AIR) right across Kier. We are already achieving this 
across some of our operations. We have significantly 
reduced the rate of accidents within the May Gurney 
business since we acquired it in 2013. However, despite 
this improving trend, there were two fatalities during the 
year in our joint venture operations, one in Hong Kong and 
one on the Crossrail project. Both accidents are currently 
subject to further investigations. They are a stark reminder 
that we can always do better.
Q Can you summarise the results for 2013/14, and 
tell us how good a platform they provide for the next 
year and beyond?
Last year saw significant progress for the business; a further 
expansion of our regional building operation, new opportunities 
in infrastructure as greater investment is made by the UK 
Government, expansion of our international footprint as well 
as the successful integration of May Gurney. We also 
improved the efficiency of the business through our 
restructuring and cost control programme.
Against this background, we delivered another good 
set of results in line with our expectations. We achieved 
underlying profit before tax* of £73.1m and a net debt 
position of £123m even after both the acquisition of May 
Gurney and the continued investment in the business 
to drive future growth.
Revenue in our Construction division grew significantly 
to around £1.6bn, reflecting a market recovery and strong 
growth in our infrastructure and international businesses. 
The Construction division also produced a 2.1% margin*, 
which was better than the market average. Looking ahead, 
we have secured more than 90% of revenues for the 
coming year.
†
 Restated on adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 (see note 31 page 132).
* Underlying operating profits and margins, pre-tax profits and EPS are stated before exceptional items totalling £42.2m (2013: £17.0m), 
amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights of £10.8m (2013: £3.4m) and unwind of discount in respect of deferred 
consideration and fair value adjustments made on acquisition of £5.3m (2013: £1.3m). Reported operating profit was £35.0m 
(2013: £35.1m), reported pre-tax profit was £14.8m (2013: £25.9m) and reported EPS was 18.4p (2013: 62.6p). 2013 results 
have been restated to reflect this presentation (see note 4 page 106).
10
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Services division delivered revenues of £1.1bn at a 
robust margin* of 4.8%, reflecting the stronger and more 
diverse mix of services in our portfolio and the £5m of cost 
synergies that we anticipated at the time of the May Gurney 
acquisition. We continue to work at the loss-making 
environmental contracts and are making progress in our 
discussions with those clients. Next year looks promising 
with more than 90% of revenues already secured following 
some excellent recent contract wins in the utilities sector.
Our Property division, including the residential activities 
which will be reported separately in next year’s report 
and accounts, delivered operating profit* of £21.0m, with 
property developments producing a return on capital of 
15%. This was another good performance by a division 
that has a development pipeline of more than £1.5bn. 
There are many more opportunities to exploit now as 
we have allocated more capital to this business.
A highlight of the year was the growth achieved 
in our infrastructure business. Projects such as 
Crossrail and Mersey Gateway bring our skills to the 
fore as we play an important role in improving the UK’s 
infrastructure. Internationally, we are increasing our 
geographic footprint based on our long 50-year record 
of operating overseas. The positive market dynamics 
in these areas, and our established skills, are providing 
further exciting opportunities for future growth.
Vision 2020 is an agenda for growth. The strong operating 
performance of all our divisions gives us confidence to make 
the investments that will provide the Group with a platform 
to double in size over the next five or six years. This will 
require investment in back-office systems and front-of-house 
IT for the Services division, to make sure we have the best 
technology and back-office systems.
However, future investment is not the only way to reflect 
stability and growth. We have considerable strength 
and depth in our existing operations, a very high level of 
risk awareness and an excellent portfolio of businesses 
that meet a wide range of client needs in growing markets. 
That’s why I am positive about our future.
Q How has the integration of May Gurney 
progressed and what value is it bringing to the Group?
The acquisition of May Gurney was undoubtedly the big 
story of 2013, and its successful integration into the wider 
business was the story of 2014. This was a significant 
development for the Group and involved challenges for our 
integration and IT teams in particular. I am pleased to report 
11
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report  that we dealt with the integration well and we have 
delivered on what we set out to achieve. Progress to date 
has been encouraging, albeit we must resolve the loss-
making environmental contracts for Bristol and Cheshire 
West & Chester local authorities in relation to which we 
have already made and announced a fair value provision. 
We have worked hard to improve the performance of every 
one of these contracts, through increased commercial 
rigour in the operations and greater engagement with the 
clients.
Most importantly, the integration has given us a greater 
breadth of skills to offer clients. It has broadened and 
strengthened the culture of client partnership in areas such 
as highways and utilities. It has also given us a greater 
scale, making it easier for us to leverage cost savings. 
We are both bigger and better together, and we now 
have relationships with more than 60 of the UK’s 350 local 
authorities. This is a significant market share, but 
one that still leaves plenty of room for further expansion. 
The enlarged group, with its broader capabilities, is 
proving to be a catalyst regarding additional 
and new requirements with existing and new clients.
For example, the Services division now has greater 
interaction with the Construction team and clients can 
now procure both small opex maintenance work as well 
as larger capex construction activities, broadening and 
deepening the Group’s relationships with its clients.
The integration of our businesses is already delivering 
opportunities. For example, our commercial property team 
has a partnership with Northampton Borough Council, and 
our Services division has another with Northamptonshire 
County Council. The Borough Council needs to update and 
upgrade care facilities, around 3,000 units. It is clear from 
discussions how much a structured, end-to-end cross-
divisional approach by Kier could help them. We have the 
ability to develop a structured financial package, build 
homes, and maintain and manage them too.
Another example of the power of integration is in Surrey, 
where our Property division has a 28-year PFI arrangement 
with Woking Borough Council. We are now building 373 
houses on regenerated land belonging to the Council, 149 
of which will be for private sale to subsidise the 224 built for 
the Council. We are also working with Surrey County Council 
on a five-year £100m asset investment programme to 
address the root causes of frequent and costly highways 
maintenance, reducing their overall maintenance budget 
over the longer term.
Q Why have you chosen now to focus on residential 
with the formation of Kier Living?
Kier Living seeks to address the imbalance between house 
building supply and demand.
We are giving greater focus to the residential market by 
bringing together three existing areas of activity – specialist 
contracting, affordable mixed tenure housing partnerships 
and private house building on our own land, enabling the 
Group to scale up its house building activities. Our approach 
means we can grow while better managing risk, taking 
production from our current 1,500 units pa to around 4,000 
by 2020. As we continue to trade our existing land bank, no 
new capital is required. We will re-invest the capital released 
as the land bank reduces into mixed tenure which is less 
capital intensive and presents much more manageable risks 
than speculative house building. 
Q Can you explain the Kier business model and how 
it will deliver your Vision 2020 strategy?
We have a broad set of capabilities and have a leading 
regional presence across the UK with operations in three 
international territories. We complement these with a 
resilient business model which comprises a value chain 
of invest, build, maintain and renew, delivered through our 
Property, Residential, Construction and Services divisions.
Significantly, as markets ebb and flow, the breadth of our 
business gives us an important hedge against the cyclical 
nature of the markets in which we operate, with Property 
and Residential at the front, while Construction and 
Services are further back in the cycle.
“ We undertake a large 
number of projects and 
risk management is a 
key factor of our bidding 
approval process.”
Chief Executive’s strategic review continued
Vision 2020
Safety Profit growth
Zero
harm
>10%
CAGR
Shareholder return Customers
Progressive  
dividend
+90%
Customer
satisfaction
Property Residential
>15%
ROCE
>15%
ROCE
Construction Services
>2.5%
EBITA
>5%
EBITA
12
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 We can offer a broad, end-to-end range of property and 
infrastructure-focused services. Our clients can maximise 
the value they derive from their assets by working with us: by 
negotiating finance and planning permissions, constructing 
major buildings and infrastructure, to providing facilities 
management and environmental services. We even keep 
water, rail and highways running smoothly. We are investing 
in better technology and back-office systems to enhance the 
effectiveness and distinctive value of our integrated offer.
Our business model provides the basis for future 
growth in revenues, profits and cash through the delivery 
of our Vision 2020 strategy. We aim for double-digit 
compound annual growth in operating profit through to 
2020, becoming a world-class customer-focused company 
and aiming to be a top three player in our chosen markets. 
We aim to achieve top quartile performance and efficiency 
across our business.
Such success will be reflected in the continuing 
improvement of our total shareholder returns.
Q What are the risks in achieving Vision 2020?
Any strategy contains a degree of ‘stretch’ or ambition. 
In striving to achieve Vision 2020, we will not reduce our 
focus on robust operational, commercial and financial 
discipline. There are a number of factors which are outside 
our control – for example, the economic climate, budgetary 
constraints of local authorities and geo-political upheaval. 
Identifying, recruiting and developing the best available 
people in an ever-changing labour market and a growing 
skills gap, will also present a challenge.
Q What are the main market opportunities open 
to the Group?
There are so many varied and exciting opportunities. For 
example, Construction is growing faster than the market 
average; our Construction division generated around 
£1.6bn in revenues in the last year. This is a market that’s 
growing by up to 5% a year and will be worth more than 
£50bn in the UK in the next four to five years. I am 
confident that the quality of our regional building business, 
and our entry into sectors including industrials, defence 
and aviation, means that we can expect our share to grow 
faster than the market average.
Our infrastructure business is also growing faster than the 
market and likely to continue to benefit from investment 
in the UK’s infrastructure. Revenues have increased from 
£150m to £400m in recent years and we believe it will 
continue to grow due to cross-party support for investment 
in roads, rail, power and water. We look forward to building 
on recent successes such as the start of Phase 2 at Hinkley 
Point C and our work on Crossrail.
The level of international opportunity is also encouraging. 
I believe this part of our business can grow to around 10% of 
Group revenues by 2020, which will mean revenues growing 
to £500m. There are considerable risks in achieving this 
objective, principally in the areas of safety, ethics and the 
management of risk. We recognise that strict and disciplined 
operational management is key. We may also look to extend 
our footprint beyond Hong Kong, the Middle East and the 
Caribbean into a fourth territory.
Turning to our Services division, we expect to grow ahead 
of the market average; we currently have a £1bn share 
of a UK market worth around £80bn. So while we have a 
strong foothold, there is scope to grow, by using our breadth 
of skills to win new clients and develop relationships with 
existing ones. Again, I expect to see the division grow ahead 
of the market average of 2–4% pa particularly in private 
sector housing maintenance, highways maintenance, 
utilities and facilities management.
Finally, in our Property division we will continue our 
non speculative approach in the developments business 
while doubling its current capital limit towards £200m by 
2020. That will enable us to target larger opportunities. 
Further, by consolidating all the Company’s residential 
experience into one division, Kier Living, we have created 
a mixed tenure housing-focused building business.
Q What competitive pressures do you face, and what 
are the key challenges ahead?
Competition for the best people will intensify as markets 
recover, so we need to offer attractive remuneration, 
training and development and fulfilling career paths. 
This is fundamental to achieving our goals. We need the 
right people in the right jobs to achieve our objectives.
We are also conscious of labour, commodity and supplier 
inflation and its effect on profits. However, we undertake 
a large number of projects with risk management playing 
a key part in our bidding approval process. Our focus 
continues to be on profits, cash and risk management, 
not just revenue.
The other big challenge is how to manage growth and we 
must ensure we have the systems and processes in place 
to manage the stresses, strains and risks associated 
with rapid expansion.
Q Where do you see Kier in 2020?
When considering the future of Kier, it’s important that 
we look at where the business is today. We have a strong 
balance sheet, a clear strategy, a robust business model, 
enduring client relationships and, above all, the people to 
exploit opportunities for growth in the markets where we 
operate. Our emphasis on strict risk management allows us 
to deliver successful projects. We remain a company with 
the customer at the heart and we have people who have 
shown they can respond to change and are ambitious for 
further growth.
So, within five years’ time, I see Kier as a company with 
clients in the public and private sectors, both in the UK 
and internationally, having doubled in size through offering 
greater breadth of service. At the same time we will deliver 
consistently strong margins and progressive dividend 
payouts and total shareholder returns. 
13
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report 
