 Chairman’s statement
A robust business
2014 was a successful year for Kier. I am pleased to report a 
good set of results for the Group which build on the positive 
performance of recent years.
The results
The 2014 financial year was a successful one for the 
business and, once again, I am pleased to report a good 
set of results for the Group. We continue to build on the 
positive performance of recent years and are particularly 
pleased to see the benefits of the May Gurney acquisition, 
which transformed the scale and diversity of the Group, 
being realised.
Before discussing the results, I want to explain some 
changes to the form of this report. Regulatory requirements 
have become ever more onerous and you will see that this 
year’s report is written in a different style to those which 
we have produced in previous years. As a Board, we have 
recognised the requirement for the information contained 
in this annual report to be fair, balanced and understandable 
and to contain the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Group’s performance, business model and 
strategy. We have therefore focused on describing our 
refreshed strategy for growth – ‘Vision 2020’ – which has 
also provided us with an opportunity to demonstrate the 
new business model so as to set out, in a transparent way, 
how the Group operates. I hope you find the additional 
information helpful.
In the year to 30 June 2014, Group profit before tax* 
was £73.1m (2013: £47.6m)
†
 with full year underlying 
earnings per share* of 107.7p (2013: 105.6p)
†
, in line 
with expectations. The Group continued to convert profit 
to cash and manage hard its working capital. Average 
Group month-end net debt was £140m (2013: £4m), 
a good result given the continuing pressure on working 
capital and the acquisition of May Gurney. 
Dividend
To reflect the Group’s progressive dividend policy and 
the Board’s continued confidence in the Group, a total 
dividend for the year of 72.0p, a 6% increase, is proposed. 
The final dividend of 49.5p will be paid on 28 November 
2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 26 September 2014. A scrip dividend 
alternative will also be available.
Strategy
Kier is all around us – we invest in, build, maintain and 
renew places where we all work, live and play. Following 
the appointment of the new chief executive, the Board 
has re-defined the strategy of the Group. Our refreshed 
focus is to develop the business significantly over the next 
five years whilst delivering a safe, robust, sustainable and 
optimised performance from efficient business processes. 
The following strategic review sets out how we aim to 
deliver on our future plan.
†
 Restated on adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 (see note 31 page 132).
* Underlying operating profits and margins, pre-tax profits and EPS are stated before exceptional items totalling £42.2m (2013: £17.0m), amortisation of intangible 
assets relating to contract rights of £10.8m (2013: £3.4m) and unwind of discount in respect of deferred consideration and fair value adjustments made on 
acquisition of £5.3m (2013: £1.3m). Reported operating profit was £35.0m (2013: £35.1m), reported pre-tax profit was £14.8m (2013: £25.9m) and reported 
EPS was 18.4p (2013: 62.6p). 2013 results have been restated to reflect this presentation (see note 4 page 106).
6
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 For details of key governance committees please see:
Governance
Nomination  
Committee
See page 60 for more information
Risk Management and 
Audit Committee
See page 63 for more information
Safety, Health and 
Environment Committee
See page 62 for more information
Directors’ Remuneration 
Report
See page 67 for more information
The Board
During the year, a number of changes to the Board took 
place. In February, it was announced that Paul Sheffield 
would step down as chief executive from the Board with 
effect from 30 June 2014. Paul joined Kier in 1983 
and his contribution over 30 years to the Group was 
considerable, most recently overseeing the acquisition 
and integration of May Gurney. The Board thanks Paul 
for his contribution to Kier and we wish him well for the 
future. As part of our succession planning, Haydn Mursell, 
previously the finance director, took up the role of chief 
executive on 1 July.
Today, I am pleased to announce that Beverley Dew 
will be joining the Group as finance director. A further 
announcement will be made in due course to confirm 
the date on which his appointment will become effective.
In February, Chris Geoghegan retired from the Board. 
Richard Bailey assumed the role of senior independent 
non-executive director, in addition to his role as chairman 
of the Risk Management and Audit Committee. Amanda 
Mellor became the chair of the Remuneration Committee 
and I took over as chair of the Nomination Committee.
On 1 September, Kirsty Bashforth joined the Board as 
a non-executive director. With over 20 years’ experience 
with BP plc, Kirsty brings a broad range of skills and 
experience, particularly in organisational effectiveness 
and business improvement. I would like to welcome Kirsty 
to the Board. 
Our people
Kier’s success lies in its ability to recruit, retain and develop 
the skills of its employees. Against a climate of increasing 
market demand, there are additional pressures to ensure 
we have the right teams in place. We are ever mindful of our 
responsibility to invest in our teams, ensuring we give them 
the opportunity to grow their skills. We aim to excel and 
create an engaging and stimulating environment for our 
people. I am pleased that at Kier we have an experienced 
team with ambition for the Group. I would like to take this 
opportunity on behalf of the Board to thank all our employees 
for their commitment, professionalism and sheer hard work 
during the year.
Outlook
These results demonstrate the continued strength of the 
Group. The business offers a broad set of capabilities 
which, when combined with a strong regional presence, 
provides a resilient operating platform. Accordingly, our 
UK divisions are increasingly providing a more integrated 
offering to customers. The portfolio of Group businesses 
is also a natural hedge against the cyclical nature of the 
markets in which we operate, with our Property and 
Residential businesses at the front, while the Construction 
and Services businesses come into their own at the back 
of the cycle.
Dividend per share
72.0p +6%
(2013: 68.0p)
Earnings per share*
107.7p +2%
(2013: 105.6p)
†
I am pleased to report a good set of results that show 
significant progress on last year and demonstrate the 
strength of the operational performance of the business 
and the benefits of the May Gurney acquisition.
Despite inflationary price and labour cost pressures in 
the market, our margins remained solid, particularly in 
our Services business. Following the integration of May 
Gurney, which transformed the scale and diversity of the 
Group, the breadth of our capabilities has resulted in new 
as well as larger contract awards. We are now able to help 
our customers maximise the value of their assets as they 
invest, build, maintain and renew them. Our capabilities 
extend from negotiating finance and planning permissions 
to constructing major buildings and infrastructure, as well 
as providing facilities management and environmental 
services. This breadth of capabilities puts us in a good 
position to pursue future growth.
While the economic climate continues to be positive, 
operating margins are under pressure due to inflationary 
cost increases in the supply chain. Cash generation will 
continue to be constrained in the short-term. However, 
strong risk management and our ability to offer a greater 
range of service offerings positions us well for the future.
The continuing improvements in our operating performance 
and our strong order book mean that we are on course to 
meet the Board’s expectations for the current financial year.
Phil White 
Chairman
7
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Governance Financial statements Strategic report 
