 on key competitive advantages: buying
scale and international diversity.
Capitalising
2 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
B&Q and Castorama’s leadership
positions in the UK and France, mainly
by improving sales, margin and cost
productivity in existing stores.
proven growth businesses, with
significant scope to expand their store
network and grow market share.
new opportunities for growth.
Strategy at a glance
Four strategic priorities
Strengthening
Expanding
Establishing Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 3
B&Q UK and Castorama France
B&Q UK made progress with its four operational
drivers – price competitiveness, customer service,
new products and store environment. A key
development in the year was the successful trial
of a new large-store format which will form the
blueprint for revamping all of B&Q’s 115 large
stores. With new customer service initiatives and
new ranges also performing well, management
remains confident that an eventual 25%
improvement in sales productivity from existing
larger stores is achievable. By the end of the year,
Brico Dépôt France, Castorama Poland and
Italy, B&Q China, Taiwan and Ireland and
Screwfix Direct in the UK 
To support continued expansion, £182 million, 40%
of Kingfisher’s total capital investment for the year,
was invested in these businesses. Fifty-six new
stores were opened in the year taking the total in
this category to nearly 270, with a similar number
planned to open in 2007/08.
In France, Brico Dépôt added 10 new stores
taking its total to 81. A major new system upgrade
was implemented to enhance competitiveness and
Brico Dépôt in Spain, Castorama in Russia,
Ko
5
ctas
5
in Turkey, B&Q Home in South Korea
and Trade Depot in the UK.
During the year, £51 million was invested in these
developing businesses, 11% of Kingfisher’s total
capital spend. Twelve stores opened in the year
taking the total trading to 29. In Turkey, Ko
5
ctas
5
is now profitable after expansion costs and
Brico Dépôt Spain is also on track to overall
profitability within the next 12-18 months. Trials
continued into the second year at Trade Depot,
which opened two more stores to serve the
During the year, Kingfisher continued to bring
new products to market, develop its own-brands
and extend direct sourcing from low-cost countries.
Kingfisher continued to develop its network
of overseas sourcing offices in Europe and Asia.
Direct sourcing shipments totalled around
US$700 million, an increase of over 20% on the
previous year.
Progress in 2006/07
two new stores and nine revamped stores were
trading in the new format. B&Q plans to convert
all the remaining large stores to this format over
the next four years, with a further 25 conversions
planned for 2007/08 (see pages 20 to 23 for
more details).
In France, Castorama continued its revitalisation
programme with two new store openings and
a further seven stores converted to the new format.
Castorama now trades from 98 stores and it will
continue its programme of revamping or relocating
its remaining 65 older stores over the coming years.
productivity. In the UK, Screwfix Direct opened 31
new trade counter stores, taking the total to 38.
Castorama Poland continued to grow strongly
and the first trial Brico Dépôt store was opened in
Warsaw to target trade professionals. Castorama
Italy and B&Q Ireland achieved strong growth.
In China, B&Q completed the integration of the
OBI stores acquired in 2005 and returned to
profitability. With 58 stores B&Q China has
consolidated its position as market leader. B&Q
Taiwan operates 21 stores. A smaller store format
has been successfully trialled.
UK professional market. In Russia, three stores
opened during the year, marking Kingfisher’s entry
into this fast-developing market.
A further 12 stores are planned to open in
2007/08 in these development businesses.
Kingfisher companies also continued to share
ideas, management talent and best practice,
as shown during the year in the development
of the new B&Q large-store format in the UK,
the launch of Brico Dépôt in Poland and the entry
of Castorama into Russia.
