 6 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Chief Executive’s review
countries, including the Group’s first stores
in Russia. Annual sales in the Rest of
Europe exceeded £1 billion for the first
time. Asia sales and profits grew strongly,
benefiting from strong profit growth in
China following the integration of the OBI
China acquisition in 2005.
Strategic progress
Kingfisher remained focused on its four
key strategic priorities with the aim of
delivering sustainable long-term growth
and investment returns for shareholders.
Good progress was made against these
priorities during the year.
1) Strengthening developed
businesses 
These businesses include B&Q UK and
Castorama France, representing almost
two-thirds of Kingfisher’s sales.
These established businesses are
focused on strengthening their leadership
positions by improving the sales productivity
of existing store space and cost efficiency.
The majority of current investment in these
businesses is in modernising existing
stores and business infrastructure, with
modest capacity expansion. 
B&Q made progress on its four
operational drivers – price competitiveness,
customer service, new products and store
environment. A key development in the
year was the successful trial of a new
large-store format which will form the
blueprint for revamping all of B&Q’s 115
large stores. With new customer service
initiatives and new ranges also performing
Tough trading conditions in the UK and
France and extensive change programmes
in B&Q UK, Castorama France and
Brico Dépôt combined to adversely
affect profit growth in 2006/07. However,
Kingfisher made good progress in its
strategic objectives for these companies
and delivered strong performances from
its growing businesses in the Rest of
Europe and Asia.
The UK home improvement market
remained challenging in 2006/07, with
consumer spending constrained by rising
interest rates and utility bills, as well as an
increasing tax burden. The market declined
further during the first half, before stabilising
over the summer and then starting to
show signs of modest growth towards the
end of the year. Across the full year the
market declined around 0.5%, having
fallen by 4% in the previous year. B&Q’s
market share was broadly stable.
B&Q gathered momentum during the
year and delivered sales and profit growth
in the second half. B&Q’s development
programme is encouraging and the pace
of activity is accelerating in 2007/08.
I remain convinced that these initiatives
will make B&Q more attractive to its
customers and more valuable for
shareholders.
In France, the market became more
price competitive as the year progressed,
compressing Kingfisher’s overall French
gross margin by around 100 basis points
in the second half. This pressure is
expected to continue into 2007/08.
However, Castorama made good progress
in developing its stores and ranges and
Brico Dépôt expanded further and
strengthened its infrastructure.
Elsewhere in Europe and Asia,
Kingfisher’s international expansion
continued with 27 new stores in nine
well, management remains confident that
an eventual 25% improvement in sales
productivity from existing larger stores is
achievable. By the end of the year, two
new stores and nine revamped stores
were trading in the new format. B&Q plans
to convert all the remaining large stores
to this format over the next four years,
with a further 25 conversions planned
for 2007/08.
In France, Castorama continued its
revitalisation programme with two new
store openings and a further seven stores
converted to its latest format. Six stores not
suitable for revamping were closed prior to
conversion to Brico Dépôts. Castorama
now trades from 98 stores and it will
continue its programme of revamping or
relocating its remaining 65 older stores
over the coming years. Ranges continue to
be updated, including the recent launch of
a wider selection of contemporary kitchens.
2) Expanding proven growth
businesses 
These businesses include Brico Dépôt
France, Castorama Poland and Italy, B&Q
China, Taiwan and Ireland, and Screwfix
Direct in the UK. In total they generate
over one-third of Kingfisher’s sales.
These younger businesses already
enjoy market-leading positions and have
reached a scale where they contribute
strongly to Kingfisher’s sales and profit
growth and deliver good economic
returns. Their main priority is to continue
to expand quickly to capitalise on their
market leadership. In total, these
businesses generated cash after funding
their cost of expansion in 2006/07.
To support continued expansion, £182
million, 40% of Kingfisher’s total capital
spend for the year, was invested in these
businesses. Fifty-six net new stores were
A key development at B&Q
was the successful trial of
a new large-store format.
Kingfisher remained focused on its four
key strategic priorities, with the aim of
delivering sustainable long-term growth
and investment returns for shareholders. Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 7
opened in the year, taking the total in this
category to nearly 270, with a similar
number planned to open in 2007/08.
In France, Brico Dépôt added 10
new stores, taking the total to 81, and
implemented a major new system upgrade
to enhance the competitiveness and
productivity of the business. In the UK,
Screwfix Direct opened 31 of the
successful new trade counter stores,
taking the total to 38.
Elsewhere in Europe, Castorama
Poland, which is aimed at the mainstream
consumer, continued to grow strongly.
The first trial Brico Dépôt store was
opened in Warsaw to target the trade
professional. Castorama Italy and B&Q
Ireland also achieved strong growth.
In China, B&Q completed the
integration of the OBI stores acquired
during 2005 and returned to profitability
for the year. In total, 58 stores are now
trading, consolidating B&Q’s position as
the largest home improvement retailer in
China. B&Q Taiwan, a 50% joint venture,
now operates 21 stores across the island
and is the clear market leader. A smaller
store format has been successfully trialled.
3) Establishing new opportunities for
the future
These businesses include Brico Dépôt
Spain, Castorama Russia, Koc
5
tas
5
Turkey
and Trade Depot in the UK.
During the year, investment of £51 million
(11% of Kingfisher’s total capital spend)
was made in these developing businesses.
Twelve stores opened in the year, taking
the total trading to 29. Koc
5
tas
5
is now
profitable after expansion costs and Brico
Dépôt Spain is also on track to overall
profitability within the next 12-18 months.
Trials continued into the second year at
Trade Depot which opened two more
stores to serve the UK professional
market. In Russia, three stores opened
during the year, marking Kingfisher’s entry
into this fast-developing market.
A further 12 stores are planned to
open in 2007/08 in these development
businesses.
4) Capitalising on buying scale and
international diversity
During the year, Kingfisher continued
to bring new products to market, develop
its own-brands and extend direct sourcing
from low-cost producers. Kingfisher
continued to develop its network of
overseas sourcing offices in Europe and
Asia. Direct sourcing shipments totalled
around US$700 million, an increase
of over 20% on the previous year.
Kingfisher companies also continued
to share ideas, management talent and
best practice, as shown during the year
in the development of the new B&Q 
large-store format in the UK, the launch
of Brico Dépôt in Poland and the entry
of Castorama into Russia.
Corporate Responsibility
Kingfisher is committed to ensuring that
the long-term development of its business
is sustainable and reflects the values and
expectations of the communities in which
it operates. As an international business
with stores in 11 countries and sourcing
offices in several more, it is important to
establish consistent environmental and
social standards across the Group’s
diverse operations, while taking into
account the different cultures and levels of
development of its operating companies.
In response, Kingfisher has developed an
environmental and social management
system known as ‘Steps to Responsible
Growth’ that sets out specific actions that
all operating companies must take to meet
policy commitments (see pages 18 and 19
for further details). Good progress was
made in these key areas during the year
in all of our businesses. Ian Cheshire,
Chief Executive of B&Q, has become
a member of the Corporate Leaders
Group on Climate Change, a group of UK
business leaders working with the
government to combat climate change,
and I am delighted to report that B&Q was
recognised as the leading UK retailer for
Corporate Social Responsibility with
a Retail Week award for its autumn 2006
energy saving campaign.
Outlook
Whilst trading conditions for our biggest
businesses continue to be challenging,
the longer-term outlook remains positive
for home improvement retailing.
Kingfisher’s leading market positions in
the UK and France, and fast-developing
positions elsewhere in Europe and Asia,
provide a powerful platform from which to
deliver sustainable long-term growth and
returns for shareholders.
Ahead of the key Easter trading
period, early 2007/08 trading has been
stronger in our major markets, supported
by better weather.
Gerry Murphy
Group Chief Executive
Whilst trading conditions
for our biggest businesses
continue to be challenging,
the longer-term outlook
remains positive for home
improvement retailing.
Gerry Murphy, Kingfisher’s
Group Chief Executive, at
the recently revamped B&Q
store in Reading. B&Q had
11 revamped larger stores
by the year end, with a
further 25 planned for the
current year.
Strengthening Expanding Establishing Capitalising Markets – at a glance
International expansion has been at the core of Kingfisher’s
strategy for many years. Castorama opened its first overseas
business in Italy in 1988 and B&Q entered Taiwan in 1996.
This strategy has continued in a measured way over the years,
leading to a strong and fast-growing portfolio of international
businesses which today provide strong growth and attractive
economic returns for Kingfisher.
Major growth opportunities
Huge markets
Population Market Market
million size share
£ billion %
UK 61 26 15
France 61 31 9
Rest of Europe
Poland 38 4 10
Italy 58 13 2
Turkey 74 4 3
Ireland 4 0.8 8
Spain 44 5 1
Russia 142 10 n/a
Asia
China 1,300 27 2
Taiwan 23 2 10
South Korea 49 6 n/a
Source: EIU Source: Kingfisher estimates
Kingfisher’s international markets
in aggregate are nearly five times
the size of the UK market.
Forecast DIY annual market growth 2006-2009
UK 2.5%
Italy 4.2%
France 4.9%
Taiwan 5.5%
Spain 6.9%
Ireland 7.1%
Poland 7.2%
Russia 10.0%
China 14.0%
UK
£26 bn 
France
£31 bn
Rest of
Europe
£36 bn 
Asia
£35 bn
Total
£128 bn    
8 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 • £10 billion market growing fast
• 85% of homes need refurbishment
• Newly constructed homes are delivered as ‘empty shells’
requiring customers to complete the fit-out
• The mortgage market is developing
• Property prices are rising
• Half of all Muscovites own a second property (dacha)
Kingfisher entered the Russian market in
2006 with the Castorama brand. It now has
three stores, with plans for another two
during 2007/08.
Russia is a large and fast-growing
consumer market. It has the largest population
in Europe (142 million). Moscow alone has
a population of 12 million, St Petersburg
has 4.8 million and a further 18 cities have
populations of over 500,000.
Consumer demand is generally strong
and growing fast and spending on the home
is particularly strong – the DIY market has
grown by 11% on average every year for the
last five years.
The market is very fragmented. Only
3% of demand is satisfied by modern,
organised stores.
Moscow
St Petersburg
Samara
Kingfisher
UK
France
Rest of Europe
Asia
Hornbach
• Identify those markets that offer real scale, with opportunities
for growth and returns
• Research the market in depth
• Build a strong local team from local nationals and allow local
management autonomy, subject to close central monitoring
of Key Performance Indicators
• Share ideas, resources and suppliers from around Kingfisher 
to create local advantage but adapt the business model to the 
local environment
• Expand once the business case is proven, and exit if it is not
Kingfisher’s 18 years of
international expansion
has been based on
several key principles:
Focus on 
Russia
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 9
Strengthening Expanding Establishing Capitalising
