 06
Kingﬁ sher 
Annual Report
and Accounts
2007/08
Chief Executive’ s statement
Ian Cheshire, Group Chief Executive, at the Brico Dépôt store in Melun, near Paris.
KF6712_IFC-p32_v13c.indd   06 KF6712_IFC-p32_v13c.indd   06 21/4/08   15:00:28 21/4/08   15:00:28 07
Kingﬁ sher 
Annual Report
and Accounts
2007/08
Capital 
Investment will be reprioritised, targeting higher hurdle rates and 
faster payback periods. A key target is to stabilise debt at current 
levels, prior to reducing it in due course. A target of ﬂ at net debt 
has been set for the current year.
Capital invested to support Kingﬁ sher’s domestic and international 
development has been signiﬁ cant to date, building strong retail and 
sourcing operations across the world and there continue to be new 
investment opportunities which offer good returns. However, debt 
has expanded in recent years and, with the global economic cycle 
now tightening, stabilising debt at current levels, prior to reducing it 
in due course is now a priority. Accordingly, we have set a target of 
constant currency ﬂ at net debt for the current year.
Consistent with this, existing capital deployed across the Group 
will be reviewed and new capital investment will continue, albeit at 
a slower rate. Annual capital investment will be around £400 million, 
reprioritised to the highest and fastest-returning projects. Higher 
hurdle rates have already been introduced with immediate effect, 
driving quicker achievement of attractive returns.
Cash returns
Greater focus will be placed on generating higher cash returns 
from the retail businesses. Stretching targets for sales growth, 
margin improvement and cost reduction will be drawn up.
Having invested signiﬁ cantly in the worldwide retail and sourcing 
operations, greater focus will now be placed on generating higher 
cash returns from the retail businesses. Operational improvements 
will be achieved through a greater customer focus and drive for 
operating cost efﬁ ciencies.
Over the next three months the new management team will draw up 
new three-year operating plans with clear, stretching, but achievable, 
sales growth, margin improvement and cost reduction targets. 
Greater emphasis will also be placed on optimising working capital. 
Accordingly, we will align management incentives to the delivery 
of these plans, which will drive a step-change in shareholder value. 
No business can fully shield itself from economic cycles and given 
the current state of the ﬁ nancial markets, most commentators are 
expecting the short-term outlook to worsen before it improves. 
Against this background, our priorities remain on improving cash 
margin and controlling costs. I remain conﬁ dent that Kingﬁ sher has 
a bright future with a strong position in an attractive retail sector, and 
with geographic diversiﬁ cation in developed and developing markets.
Ian Cheshire
Group Chief Executive
Our aim is to deliver a step-change 
in value by focusing on three key priorities
I am delighted to be leading Kingﬁ sher at this important time in 
our development. We have a great opportunity to unlock the full 
potential of our strong assets. By changing how the Group as a 
whole is managed, tightening our use of capital and driving out 
higher cash returns from our businesses we intend to deliver a 
step-change in value for our shareholders.
Home improvement is an attractive segment of retail, beneﬁ ting from 
natural long-term demand characteristics fuelled by demand for more 
new housing and more frequent home renewal. The market also 
beneﬁ ts from many products being common across international 
markets, giving rise to global sourcing and economies of scale.
Within this market Kingﬁ sher is alone in having such a large and 
geographically diversiﬁ ed business. However, delivering more 
shareholder value from this strong strategic position will require 
changes in three key areas. 
Management
A new senior team, working within a new management structure, 
will have collective responsibility for overall Group delivery of results 
as well as key existing cross-Group activities.
Historically, Kingﬁ sher has followed a decentralised management 
approach, with our retail businesses largely operating independently 
but participating in Group-wide programmes for local advantage. 
This approach has successfully resulted in the businesses being 
well adapted to local customers, but it has yet to deliver the Group’s 
full potential.
Going forward, the retail businesses will retain responsibility for best 
serving their local customers but a new senior team, working within 
a new management structure, will have collective responsibility for 
overall Group delivery of results as well as key existing cross-Group 
activities; global sourcing, own-brand development, common 
purchasing, IT, property and global talent management.
Accordingly, three new geographic divisions have now been 
established; UK, France and Other International. Three new 
management roles have been created with overall responsibility 
for all businesses in each geographic division, and good progress 
has been made in identifying these executives. Philippe Tible, 
CEO of Castorama France, has been appointed to lead the French 
division and an announcement about the UK will be made shortly.
These three roles will make up the core of the new Retail Board 
with cross-Group powers and incentives. Internal management 
information has been simpliﬁ ed and more rigorous internal reporting 
– business performance monitoring and challenge processes – are 
being introduced. The Group Chief Executive will regularly attend 
Board meetings of the UK, French and Polish businesses.
KF6712_IFC-p32_v13c.indd   07 KF6712_IFC-p32_v13c.indd   07 19/4/08   14:55:15 19/4/08   14:55:15 Kingﬁ sher 
Annual Report
and Accounts
2007/08
08
Kingﬁ sher’s businesses outperformed the market by delivering 
sales growth of 5.1%, despite disruption from B&Q’s biggest year 
of change in its history. 
B&Q’s total reported sales were £3.9 billion, up 2.7% (52 weeks). 
For the ﬁ rst time in three years, despite operating in a challenging 
market and with difﬁ cult summer weather patterns, like-for-like 
sales were up, by 0.6%. Total sales grew 4.8% over the ﬁ rst half but 
only 0.5% in the second half (26 weeks), reﬂ ecting a tougher retail 
environment. However, good sales growth from revamped large 
stores and new ranges helped offset disruption from the ongoing 
renewal activity.
Retail proﬁ t was £131 million (2006/07: £163 million), after £29 million 
net revenue costs of the renewal programme (£14 million revamping 
larger stores and £15 million range review clearance activity). 
Underlying retail proﬁ t was broadly maintained. The underlying 
gross margin rate, before range review clearance activity, was 
slightly up compared to last year, reﬂ ecting less promotional activity 
and a favourable sales mix towards new, higher margin products.
Total costs grew 4% (52 weeks) with underlying cost inﬂ ation of 
2%, net new space growth of 2% and the additional costs of store 
revamping offset by cost savings. 
Renewal programme update
B&Q aims to grow its share of home improvement expenditure 
by strengthening its appeal to both the Do-it-Yourself (DIY) and 
Do-it-For-Me (DFM) customer. During 2007/08, B&Q underwent 
the biggest year of change in its history, which included updating 
product ranges, improving its store environments and introducing 
more services, to ensure B&Q is the ﬁ rst and only store for a greater 
proportion of customers’ home improvement spend. 
New product ranges
B&Q updated 60% of its overall product ranges during the year, 
supported by a major new advertising campaign. Updated ranges 
of wall and window coverings, lighting, soft furnishings and kitchens 
sold particularly well, as have bedroom, plumbing and ﬂ ooring 
ranges which have been updated more recently. A better underlying 
performance is expected from these changes in 2008/09. 
Customer service
Customer service requirements are typically the highest when 
shopping for room make-over decorative items and major home 
improvement projects. Good advice, online and in-store, coupled 
with fast and efﬁ cient delivery and installation, are key to good 
customer service.
During the ﬁ rst half of the year, 800 in-store decorative advisers 
received practical decorating skills training, to enable them to 
advise customers on how to style rooms. This initiative has been 
well received and will be extended to laying ﬂ ooring, tiling and the 
basics of plastering and ﬁ tting kitchens and bathrooms. 
Revamp programme gathers pace
The UK home improvement market* grew over the ﬁ rst half of the 
year, before weakening over the second half, as concerns over higher 
personal debt, less debt availability and falling house prices began to 
weigh on the consumer. For the full year, the market grew by around 
3%, following falls of 0.5% last year and 4% in 2005/06. 
*  Market data from GfK for the leading retailers of home improvement products 
and services
Operating review UK
KF6712_IFC-p32_v13c.indd   08 KF6712_IFC-p32_v13c.indd   08 21/4/08   12:46:46 21/4/08   12:46:46 01 02
Kingﬁ sher 
Annual Report
and Accounts
2007/08
09
01 Revamped displays
A key development during the year was the progress of the large store 
revamp programme. These stores are lighter, brighter and feature more 
clearly deﬁ ned shop-within-shop sections, more room-set displays and 
more space allocated to kitchens, bathrooms, ﬂ ooring and tiling areas. 
The store revamp in Farnborough, Hampshire (pictured right), was 
completed in February. B&Q revamped around 5.5 million square feet 
of store space across the year and now has over half its store space 
in a modern format. In total, 38 of the 117 large stores are in the modern 
format, with 27 completed in the year. The programme remains on track 
for completion in 2011.
Before
After
KF6712_IFC-p32_v13c.indd   09 KF6712_IFC-p32_v13c.indd   09 19/4/08   14:55:15 19/4/08   14:55:15 Kingﬁ sher 
Annual Report
and Accounts
2007/08
10
Following a major overhaul of B&Q’s installation and home delivery 
services, the time from order to delivery and installation of kitchens 
and bathrooms has been reduced by ﬁ ve weeks on average. 
Also, the B&Q website (www.diy.com) has been revamped, with 
customers now able to use new free room design and bathroom 
planner software, view more than 35,000 products online and 
check availability in their local store. In addition, 6,500 products 
continue to be available for home delivery.
Store development
Having revamped around 5.5 million square feet of store space 
across the year, B&Q now has over half its store space in a modern 
format. Twenty seven large store revamps, which encompass 
more clearly deﬁ ned shop-within-shop sections, room-set displays 
and more space allocated to kitchens, bathrooms, ﬂ ooring and 
UK Trade
Screwﬁ x total sales grew 28.0% (52 weeks), driven by the 
continued roll-out of the trade counters, which provide customers 
with immediate product availability and a bigger catalogue. 
An additional 55 outlets opened during the year, taking the total 
to 93. Trade counters now represent almost 40% of total sales. 
To support this continued growth, a second distribution centre 
was successfully commissioned during the year in Stafford. 
Retail proﬁ t increased 6.4%, driven by the strong sales growth 
and fulﬁ lment efﬁ ciency gains, offset by start-up costs for the 
second distribution centre and an accelerated trade counter 
opening programme. Excluding the impact from these initiatives, 
retail proﬁ t would have been up around 14%.
One Planet Living at B&Q 
tiling areas were completed. This programme remains on track 
for completion by 2011.
The 11 large new format stores which have been open for more 
than one year have delivered targeted average sales densities of 
over £200 per square foot, 25% higher than comparable sized, 
older format stores.
The higher sales productivity results from customers spending 
more in the expanded kitchen, bathroom and associated project 
areas. In aggregate, the revamps, which on average have only 
24 weeks’ trading data, have delivered sales uplifts of 13% higher 
than a ‘control group’. However, measurement of this relative uplift 
excludes the beneﬁ ts of updated product ranges, which are now 
substantially available in all stores, including the ‘control group’ stores.
B&Q now has 117 large stores (38 in the latest format) and 206 
medium stores (of which 151 have been modernised). Overall net 
space increased 2% during the year. 
Trade Depot, which targets the general builder and specialist 
trade customer, opened two more branches during the year taking 
the total trading to six. Underlying trading remains encouraging.
As part of the new management structure, an integrated review 
of the optimal UK trade strategy across our various brands will 
be conducted.
In January, B&Q unveiled 
a series of initiatives to help 
it and millions of British 
home owners to reduce 
their environmental impact. 
B&Q signed a three-year 
partnership with BioRegional 
to move towards being a 
One Planet Living business. 
As the world’s population 
grows there simply aren’t 
enough resources available 
on the planet to meet 
potential demand. One Planet 
Living aims to maximise the 
use of sustainable materials 
and their transport whilst 
minimising carbon usage 
and waste.
B&Q is working with 
BioRegional to develop two 
sustainability action plans: 
one for B&Q’s own operations, 
and one to help its customers 
achieve One Planet Living in 
their homes and gardens. As 
part of this, B&Q aims to 
develop a substantial One 
Planet Living product range 
in store. This includes low 
energy lightbulbs and 
eco-wool loft lagging, 
winner of the Retail Week 
Product Innovation of the 
Year award for 2008.
As part of this initiative, 
B&Q also announced 
its decision to phase out 
patio heaters.
Operating review UK
KF6712_IFC-p32_v13c.indd   10 KF6712_IFC-p32_v13c.indd   10 19/4/08   14:55:20 19/4/08   14:55:20 01 02 03
04 05 06
Kingﬁ sher 
Annual Report
and Accounts
2007/08
11
Screwﬁ x – a multi-channel success story
Screwfi x is a true multi-
channel retailer. With its 
catalogue, internet and trade 
counter network giving 
customers three ways to 
buy, the business has grown 
to become the UK’s largest 
direct and online supplier 
of trade tools, accessories 
and hardware products. 
Every week, Screwfi x 
despatches around 80,000 
parcels for next day and 
weekend delivery to 
tradesmen, handymen and 
serious DIY enthusiasts all 
over the country.
In the past year the number of 
products offered by Screwfi x 
has grown by 20% to more 
than 18,000. The catalogue 
grew by 14% to over 1,100 
pages. The online presence 
is also growing, with internet 
orders accounting for 30% 
of the total. And in the past 
three years Screwfi x has 
added a nationwide network 
of trade counters, with over 
10,000 items in stock for 
immediate collection. By the 
year end there were 93 trade 
counters in the UK, with the 
100th opening at the end of 
February, in Epsom, Surrey.
Screwfi x recently added a 
second national distribution 
centre to serve its growing 
trade counter estate.
02 New Colours Collection paints, £14.98 per 2.5 ltr 03 New Organic Living ranges of herbs and plants
05 Moisture-resistant B&Q Designer Marylou 
wallpaper, £12.98 per roll
*  Prices correct as at 26 March 2008
01 Monsoon Yasuko ceramic table lamp, £99
04 Carbonised solid bamboo wood fl ooring, 
£22.98 per sq/m
06 Gloss Cream Slab and Chocolate Oak Shaker 
Kitchen produced from timber certifi ed to 
FSC standards
KF6712_IFC-p32_v13c.indd   11 KF6712_IFC-p32_v13c.indd   11 21/4/08   08:25:00 21/4/08   08:25:00
