 03
Kingﬁ sher plc
Annual Report 
and Accounts
2010/11
Chairman’ s statement
It has been another good year for Kingfi sher. 
Adjusted pre-tax profi ts were up 22.5% to 
£670 million, with growth achieved in all our 
major markets. The dividend was raised again, 
following the increase in the fi nal dividend last 
year and we have a strong balance sheet, with 
net cash standing at £14 million by the end of 
the fi nancial year. Given net debt stood at 
£1.6 billion only three years ago, this is a 
signifi cant achievement.
These results were achieved against an extremely difﬁ cult backdrop. The ongoing economic 
downturn continued to put consumer spending under pressure, as major Western economies, 
such as the UK, increased taxes and reduced spending. 
I believe that Kingﬁ sher’s key strengths have helped us withstand these economic headwinds. 
We have good geographic balance, with approximately 60% of sales and proﬁ ts coming from 
outside the UK. We have strong retail brands with a value heritage, which is vital in tougher 
times. And we have an experienced management team, led by Ian Cheshire, which has taken 
prompt and decisive action. 
We continued to make good progress with our seven step Delivering Value plan. More detail on 
the plan is provided in the ‘Conversation with the Executive Team’, but I would like to pick out a 
few highlights where our focus on ‘self-help’ has driven very good results. We delivered double 
digit proﬁ t growth in the UK and Ireland, France, Turkey and Spain, where our business 
was operating in a very difﬁ cult economy. Poland also increased proﬁ ts against a tough 
backdrop. And in China the losses were signiﬁ cantly reduced as our business there continues 
to improve. 
There is still more to come from the ﬁ rst phase of Delivering Value, which concludes in 2012, 
but I am excited about the next phase of our growth plan which we outlined in March. Our 
business has great potential and I believe the plan we have announced, which is covered in 
more detail on pages 10 and 11, will help us achieve it.
The Board is recommending a ﬁ nal dividend of 5.145p, up 43.9% on the ﬁ nal dividend in the 
previous year. This takes the full year dividend to 7.07p, a 28.5% increase on the prior year.
I am delighted to welcome two non-executives to the Board. Pascal Cagni is Vice President 
and General Manager of Apple Europe, Middle-East, India and Africa, and has been with Apple 
for 10 years in a variety of roles. His background will be of particular help as we develop our 
multichannel strategy. Clare Chapman is Director General of Workforce for the NHS and Social 
Care, where she is responsible for a workforce of more than two million people. She was 
previously Group HR director of Tesco and her experience in talent management and people 
development will be invaluable. Pascal and Clare will further enhance our board, which already 
includes directors with experience gained at Ikea, Carrefour and Cadbury, amongst others.
Finally, I would like to pay heartfelt thanks to our 80,000 staff around the world. It is their hard 
work and dedication that has made this year such a successful one.
Daniel Bernard
Chairman
40328_Kingfisher[Front]p01-30_FINAL.indd 03 40328_Kingfisher[Front]p01-30_FINAL.indd   03 14/4/11 12:56:18 14/4/11   12:56:18
