 01
Kingﬁ sher plc
Annual Report 
and Accounts
2010/11
We have delivered another year of strong profi t growth 
and cash generation in what continue to be challenging 
times for our customers around the world. 
Our ‘Delivering Value’ programme of self-help has been 
a great success so far with profi ts almost doubled since it 
started, return on capital up sharply and fi nancial net debt 
eliminated. Despite signifi cant economic headwinds over 
the last few years we are now a stronger, more valuable 
business. I am also delighted that we are now better able 
to accelerate our expansion where economic returns have 
been proven whilst also signifi cantly increasing our 
dividend for our shareholders, many of whom are now 
our own colleagues. 
Looking ahead, although I see no let up in the challenging 
environment in the short-term, I am excited by our future 
prospects. This year we will be stepping up the pace once 
more with a full set of activities in the fi nal year of the fi rst 
phase of ‘Delivering Value’ as well as mobilising the 
second phase, which is due to start in 2012. I believe we 
have an exciting growth opportunity , sustainable over the 
longer term, by creating a business that is the world’s 
expert at making home improvement easier for customers. 
We are uniquely placed to use our scale, our network of 
international experience and our diversity for the benefi t 
of our customers and shareholders.
Progress update from the 
Chief Executive
Ian Cheshire
Group Chief Executive
Kingﬁ sher plc
Kingﬁ sher plc is Europe’s leading home improvement retail group and 
the third largest in the world, with nearly 860 stores in eight countries in 
Europe and Asia. Its main retail brands are B&Q, Castorama, Brico Dépôt 
and Screwﬁ x. Kingﬁ sher also has a 50% joint venture business in Turkey 
with Koç Group, and a 21% interest in, and strategic alliance with, 
Hornbach, Germany’s leading large format DIY retailer.
40328_Kingfisher[Front]p01-30_FINAL.indd 01 40328_Kingfisher[Front]p01-30_FINAL.indd   01 14/4/11 12:56:16 14/4/11   12:56:16
