 5
Business review Governance Accounts
 www.kingﬁ sher.com
 
Chief Executive’s statement 
 
As the Chairman says in his review, it  
has been a tough year for Kingfisher, with 
currency movements, weather and weak 
consumer markets providing significant 
headwinds for our businesses. But I am 
pleased that the hard work of our teams 
and our firm focus on our well established 
programme of self-help initiatives, including 
cost efficiencies and sourcing gains, helped 
offset some of these headwinds and 
enabled us to end the year in good shape. 
We continued to actively manage the 
business, generating cash and a positive 
economic profit whilst successfully 
delivering the first year of our Creating the 
Leader programme, which is designed to 
increase shareholder value over the 
medium-term.  
We made good progress on the four key 
areas of this programme: Easier, Common, 
Expand and One Team. This Annual 
Report includes many examples of the key 
milestones we achieved in the year but a 
few worthy of particular note include: 
 Increased investment in online 
retailing. Screwfix launched a mobile 
‘click, pay & collect’ service for 
customers and has developed a Group 
omnichannel platform that has enabled 
B&Q’s TradePoint business to launch a 
transactional website. A lot of work also 
went into preparing for the launch of a 
new and improved online offer for  
B&Q later in 2013.  
 Grown the amount of product that is 
sourced direct from suppliers around 
the world using our global network of 
sourcing offices. Particularly strong 
growth in direct sourced product was 
achieved in our developing markets, 
Poland, Russia, Turkey and China.  
We also achieved our target of sharing 
more of our best own brand products 
across our businesses.  
 Opened 70 net new stores during  
the year in markets where economic 
returns are attractive, including 60 new 
Screwfix units in the UK. We revamped 
and extended five Castorama stores in 
France and are trialling a new format 
store in China targeting the Do-it-for-
Me apartment design market. 
 Worked more closely together as a 
networked organisation. We have  
now launched the Kingfisher ‘One 
Academy’ with the aim of attracting 
and developing a top team of the best 
talent in international retailing. We also 
launched Kingfisher’s Net Positive 
sustainability strategy. Our aim is to go 
beyond simply being ‘neutral’ or doing 
less harm, towards making a net 
positive contribution. Our focus is on 
four areas: timber, energy, innovation 
and communities and I am convinced 
that this approach is vital as businesses 
must be a force for good in society. 
During the year we developed the wider 
management team, mostly through 
internal promotion, adding Steve Willett 
and Guy Colleau to the Group Executive 
team. Steve takes on responsibility  
for our omnichannel activities as well as 
overseeing Group productivity. Steve’s 
previous role as CEO of Screwfix makes 
him ideally suited to this role. Guy, who 
was previously CEO of Castorama France, 
takes on responsibility for driving our 
product agenda across our businesses. 
So, in summary, it was a tough year but 
we ended it in good shape, with a strong 
balance sheet and with our Creating the 
Leader programme well underway. We 
will continue with this programme in  
the coming year and later in this Annual 
Report you will find more details of the 
key activities we have planned.  
Although the economic background 
remains challenging, I believe Kingfisher 
continues to have excellent prospects as 
we work towards our aim of making it 
easier for customers to have better,  
more sustainable homes. 
 
Ian Cheshire 
Group Chief Executive 
 
“ 
I BELIEVE KINGFISHER CONTINUES TO  
HAVE EXCELLENT PROSPECTS AS WE WORK 
TOWARDS OUR AIM OF MAKING IT EASIER  
FOR CUSTOMERS TO HAVE BETTER,  
MORE SUSTAINABLE HOMES.
” 
Ian Cheshire 
Group Chief Executive  
 
 
To watch a video interview with  
Ian Cheshire, go to 
www.kingfisher.com/IanCheshirePrelims13 
