  www.kingfisher.com
5
Strategic Report Governance Accounts
 
Group Chief Executive’s statement 
 www.kingfisher.com 
5 
 
Although the economic environment was 
difficult, Kingfisher made good progress 
during the year. After an extremely difficult 
first quarter, which was affected by poor 
spring weather, the environment improved 
as the year progressed. The economic 
backdrop was generally soft across 
Europe for much of the year, particularly 
in France, our most significant market. 
However, our self-help programme 
enabled us to grow profits and improve 
our balance sheet strength, whilst also 
investing in lower prices and improved 
convenience for our customers. We 
therefore finished the year in good shape.  
We have continued to make good 
progress with our Creating the Leader 
strategy, which has supported short-term 
trading results whilst also building 
Kingfisher’s longer-term future. As well as 
emphasising our affordability credentials 
through price initiatives, we have 
continued to make home improvement 
easier for customers through an improved 
online offer at B&Q in the UK & Ireland 
and upgraded websites in Turkey, China, 
Brico Dépôt France and Spain.  
Further progress was made in sharing  
our best ranges across more of our 
businesses, with particular progress in 
own brand paint. In October we held our 
inaugural One Team Product Show in Lille 
where 10,000 of our new product ranges 
were unveiled to 6,000 store colleagues 
from around the Group. Expansion 
continued with more than 80 new stores 
opened across Kingfisher, including 60 at 
our Screwfix business. Screwfix had 
another excellent year, growing sales by 
more than 17% (on a 52 week basis) and 
creating nearly 900 jobs, whilst continuing 
to develop its industry-leading online 
operations. Kingfisher continues to work 
more closely as a networked organisation, 
with further investment in our One Team 
Academy, which provides training 
modules for senior management.  
At Kingfisher we are also committed to 
making a positive contribution to society 
and the planet as we grow our business. 
Through our Net Positive programme  
we help our customers to create more 
sustainable homes, while improving 
efficiency and opening up new sources  
of revenue for our companies. We made 
good progress this year towards many  
of our ambitious targets in timber, 
energy use and new community 
engagement projects. See pages  
18 to 19 for more details. 
Looking ahead, we will continue to drive 
our Creating the Leader programme this 
year. Our key priorities will include  
starting the roll-out of our omnichannel 
programmes across the Group (allowing 
customers to shop with us in any way  
they prefer – via shops, the internet or 
catalogues). In addition we will extend  
our sourcing programmes and initiate  
a four-year Group-wide IT change 
programme. This will involve replacing  
our physical infrastructure and software  
to enable a step change in our customers’ 
shopping experience.  
We are also seeking organic growth in  
our selling space of 2% (71 new stores), 
including two new country entries,  
Brico Dépôt into Portugal and Screwfix  
into Germany. 
Importantly, we will focus our portfolio to 
maximise our economic returns, including 
the disposal of our stake in the Hornbach 
business following our decision to expand 
into the Romanian and German markets 
where Hornbach operates. In China, our 
B&Q business is now stable and so we are 
now looking for a strategic partner to  
help grow the business and replicate the 
successful partner approach in Turkey.  
B&Q UK & Ireland has performed resiliently 
during the economic downturn, growing 
profits in a declining market. Looking 
ahead, with its customers and market 
evolving very quickly B&Q has set about 
redoubling its efforts to achieve future 
growth and continued success. Following 
the strengthening of the B&Q management 
team in October 2013 under the direct 
leadership of Kevin O’Byrne, B&Q is 
working towards simplifying its business  
to make it more agile in the marketplace. 
The business aims to grow sales and 
economic profit, for example by delivering 
an improved omnichannel experience for 
customers, an optimised store footprint  
and driving footfall with better targeted 
marketing and more competitive pricing. 
Given the success of the last six years in 
improving our balance sheet and cash 
generation, and having successfully  
resolved an outstanding French tax case, I 
am delighted that we are able to announce 
a multi-year programme of additional  
capital returns. This wi ll be in addition to  
the annual dividend and will start during 
2014/15 with around £200 million. At this 
level Kingfisher would have the flexibility to 
continue reinvesting in the business, pay  
a healthy dividend an d capitalise on value-
enhancing consolidation opportunities. 
As we start the new financial year,  
we are well placed to benefit from a  
pick-up in consumer spending as 
Europe’s economies return to growth.  
Our prospects remain bright, giving us 
confidence to invest in the business and 
actively manage our portfolio, including 
expanding into new markets, whilst also 
commencing a programme to return 
surplus capital to our shareholders. 
 
Sir Ian Cheshire  
Group Chief Executive
“Our prospects remain bright,
giving us confidence to invest  
in the business and expand  
into new markets, whilst also 
commencing a programme  
to return surplus capital  
to shareholders.” 
Sir Ian Cheshire 
Group Chief Executive 
 
 To watch a video interview with Sir Ian Cheshire go to 
 http://annualreport.kingfisher.com/2013-14/strategic- 
 report/ceo-statement.html 
 
