 Kleeneze plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2003
06
Chief Executive’s review 
Chief
Executive’s
review
1. Tracy Buckland (left), John Halstead and 
Felicity Sinclair on the Farepak packing line. 
2. Kim Rawson, Zoë Joyner and Glyn Chamberlain, 
(seated) reviewing distributor accounts.
3. Mark Timms receives frozen foods into storage 
at Farepak.
4. Conor O’Malley and Sarah Palmer reviewing 
packing schedules at Kleeneze UK.
I joined the Group in January this year
and this is my first Chief Executive’s
review. Over the last few months I have
had the opportunity to meet many of 
our own people and, equally importantly,
many of the agents and distributors 
who make our business so special. 
I would like to take this opportunity 
to thank them for their hard work and
commitment to the Group.
I have spent a significant amount of
time reviewing our activities in order 
to formulate the strategy for the future
size and shape of the Group.
My initial conclusions were that we have
two exceptionally strong, high quality,
cash generative businesses in Kleeneze
UK and Farepak. DMG, however, did not
fit into the Group’s long term strategy.
The principal reasons for this were 
as follows:
> Although DMG is a direct selling
business using agents, it is different
from both Kleeneze UK and Farepak 
in several key ways. Most importantly,
Kleeneze UK and Farepak are
catalogue businesses distributing
directly, whereas DMG sells through an
intermediary, normally a receptionist,
and relies upon a small selection of
books and toys that changes every 
six weeks. This requires a different
approach to both buying, with more
individual items, higher stock levels
and consequently more redundant 
and surplus stock, and to marketing,
where DMG is reliant upon the
relationship between the intermediary
and the customer. Both of these
approaches have proven to be
incompatible with Kleeneze UK 
and Farepak. 
> The nature of the market place within
which DMG operates and the change
in the structure of the competition in
the High Street, where there continues
to be significant heavy discounting of
front list books seen most recently
with the launch of Harry Potter and 
the Order of the Phoenix, means that
both the growth prospects and the
return on capital are always going to
be lower at DMG than at Kleeneze UK, 
or indeed Farepak. 
> The highly localised and fragmented
nature of the display marketing
industry, where the barriers to entry
are low, means that the business will
never be able to be of the size that 
will make it a significant contributor 
to the Group alongside Kleeneze UK 
and Farepak.
We concluded, therefore, that any
potential upside from reducing the
operating losses at DMG and retaining 
it was more than offset by the risks,
particularly given some of the
fundamental changes in the market
place in which it operates. As a result
we sold DMG for £4.1 million to Premier
Direct Group plc, who focus exclusively
on the display marketing industry. 
The disposal of DMG brings to a close 
a difficult chapter in the Group’s history
but leaves the Group with two highly
profitable and cash generating
businesses, which are well positioned
for growth in their respective market
places. The cash generated from these
core operations will be used firstly 
to reduce our net debt and then to 
grow them significantly over the next
few years. 
At Kleeneze UK the distribution network
that we have built since acquisition in
1995 is growing steadily and can be
used to sell a wider range of products.
We have successfully widened the
product range to include both Health
and Beauty products and the higher
priced Kleeneze Plus range for the
home and garden. We plan to introduce
further new product offerings during the
forthcoming year. 
With over 25 million households in the
UK and Ireland and 16,900 distributors
in a market place worth £1.6 billion
annually, we have a significant
opportunity to increase our market
share. Our new, dedicated distribution
centre in Warmley, which is expected to
come on stream in Spring 2004, will
provide us with the necessary capacity
to handle this growth. 
At Farepak the acquisition of Goodway
Hampers in April this year will enable us
to grow our number of agents in a much
more effective way than through our
standard recruitment methods. It also
ensures that we recruit high quality
established agents and I would like to
take this opportunity to welcome them
to the Group. The overall Christmas
savings market has grown 2% year on
year and we are now better positioned
to take advantage of that growth.
Furthermore, there will be opportunities
for further consolidation in the
Christmas savings industry and we aim
to be an active player in that process.
Our core competencies are the sourcing
of quality original product for our
catalogues and the recruitment,
retention and motivation of agents and
distributors. As we grow the Group in
the future, whether organically or
through acquisition, either in the UK or
continental Europe, we will always focus
on those core competencies and ensure
that we do not diversify away from 
our strengths. For example, there are 
a large number of small to medium
sized catalogue operations in the UK
that would fit well in the Group and we
are reviewing several opportunities.
Kleeneze UK and Farepak form the
basis of a tightly focused Group directly
serving the customer through face to
face catalogue distribution and product
delivery. We believe that face to face
contact is, and will remain, a key part 
of the shopping experience and our
strengths play to that. We will use these
proven strengths to build the UK’s
leading direct to the home retail group.
1
2
3 4 Kleeneze plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2003
07
Chief Executive’s review 
Kerry Knight and Adam Heirons
Kleeneze UK Gold Distributors. Kleeneze plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2003
08
Chief Executive’s review
Tony and Muriel Judson
Tony and Muriel are Kleeneze UK
Distributors of the Year 2003. Kleeneze plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2003
09
Chief Executive’s review 
1. Ian Doherty (left) and Richard Reynolds inspect the 
plans for Kleeneze UK’s new site at Warmley.
2. John Westcott in Kleeneze UK’s picking area.
3. Paul Samms in Kleeneze UK’s bulk storage area.
4. Kleeneze UK’s finance team (from left to right): 
Mark Jelbert, Gary Ridewood, Liz Butler, Helen Wild 
and Jo Claridge.
Kleeneze UK
Kleeneze UK provides good value,
everyday products through catalogues
delivered direct to the home by self-
employed distributors covering the UK
and Ireland.
Kleeneze UK had a successful year with
turnover growing 5.5% to £86.3 million
(2002: £81.8 million) and operating profit
growing 21.3% to £6.6 million (2002:
£5.5 million). 
The growth in turnover was underpinned
by the growth in distributor numbers.
Record levels of recruitment led to
average active distributor numbers
growing 12.7% to 16,900 (2002: 15,000).
The higher distributor numbers were
also reflected in record attendance at
conferences with over 15,000 attendees
across the three UK conferences
compared to 13,000 last year. We
continue to offer one of the most
attractive multi-level compensation
plans for distributors in the UK direct
selling market place and the increased
quality of our distributors bears witness
to that.
During the year we shipped 417,000
orders to our distributors compared to
385,000 last year. There was a slight
decrease in the average sales value per
distributor ordering from £545 to £510,
which was primarily due to the inclusion
of lower priced products in the main
catalogue. We have addressed this in
our newest catalogues and as a result
we anticipate an increase in average
sales values during the current year. 
The average sale to the end customer
has, however, remained steady at about
£10 per sale.
Turnover in all Kleeneze’s catalogues
grew year on year. It was notable that 
in our newer Health & Beauty catalogue
growth was particularly strong which
reflects the creativity and innovation that
we have put into that product range.
The sourcing of quality original products
is one of our core competencies and we
have recently strengthened our Buying
team. This will help us to drive growth
through our fresh and original product
range. We source about 50% of our
products from the Far East.
The large increase in the number of
orders processed and shipped has lead
to capacity issues in the current site at
Hanham in Bristol. We have therefore
decided to re-locate the whole business
to a purpose built distribution centre at
Warmley, also in Bristol, some 2.5 miles
from the current site. Warmley is a
165,000 sq.ft. facility which we will be
modernising to provide sufficient
capacity for our current needs and
future expansion. We are investing 
£2.5 million in new systems to create 
a state of the art facility. To finance this
move we have sold the Hanham site,
which the business has occupied since
1928, for £4.0 million in cash. The
proceeds will be received after we 
have vacated the site and we are
planning to begin fulfilment from
Warmley in Spring 2004. The profit on
disposal has not been recognised in
these financial statements. 
We have already started to use the
Warmley site for receiving goods and
storing them before transfer to the 
pick/pack operation at Hanham. This
has allowed us to consolidate our stock
from five separate locations giving
better storage conditions, improved
stock control and increased service
levels. Improved stock management
systems have allowed us to reduce
overall stock levels by over 12% despite
the 5.5% increase in turnover. Together
with other improvements in operating
efficiencies this has contributed to the
overall increase in operating margins.
Use of the internet by our distributors
has continued to increase and over 
80% of our orders are now received
electronically. This greatly speeds order
processing, reduces administrative
costs and allows a next day delivery
service to be provided. We are
continually improving the service we
provide to our distributors through 
our www.eezenet.com website and 
are developing a new generation
information platform for re-launch later
this year. We would expect this to lead
to increased use of the service.
Kleeneze UK is an exciting dynamic
business operating in a growing part of
the UK’s retail environment. We continue
to develop its potential by sourcing 
new innovative “every day” products
and increasing the number and quality
of our distributors.
1
2 3 4 Kleeneze plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2003
10
Chief Executive’s review
1. Photography for Farepak’s 2003 catalogue.
2. Gareth Woolger on the Farepak packing line.
3. Jane Kelly overseeing Farepak’s shopping voucher 
counting machines.
3
Farepak
Farepak provides Christmas hampers,
gifts and shopping vouchers on a
monthly instalment basis through
catalogues distributed by independent
agents across the UK. Farepak operates
under two brands, Farepak Food & Gifts
and Home Farm Hampers, an associated
company, which is 60% owned by
Findel plc.
Farepak had another good year with
turnover growing by 7.0% to 
£77.9 million (2002: £72.8 million) and
operating profit by 14.4% to £1.9 million
(2002: £1.6 million).
Agent numbers grew organically by
1.6% year on year to 63,000 (2002:
62,000). We have a large number of 
high quality agents who have been 
with Farepak for many years and we
have concentrated our marketing and
recruitment activities on retaining those
agents. As a result our retention rate
increased to 71.9% from 65.3% last
year. We review annually the way in
which we recruit new agents and our
targeted campaigns across the UK
consistently produce high quality agents
who remain with us for a long time. 
To enhance further the quality of our
agents in April this year we acquired
Goodway Hampers Limited (“Goodway”),
a small profitable family owned hamper
business based in Liverpool, for 
£0.4 million in cash. This brought
Farepak 1,300 new agents who have
been seamlessly integrated into our
operation. We have closed the Liverpool
site and are servicing the agents 
from our dedicated service centre in
Swindon. Goodway had a higher
percentage of hamper sales than
Farepak and this will bring more volume
into our Swindon site. As a result the
acquisition will be earnings enhancing 
in the first year.
Shopping vouchers across the
Christmas savings market as a whole
have become very popular as they
provide flexibility for the customer and
these vouchers have driven growth 
in the market as a whole. The Choice
shopping vouchers, which can be
redeemed in a number of different
shops in the UK, continue to be very
popular and overall voucher sales grew
by 11.0% year on year. The Choice
voucher can now be redeemed in over
12,000 shops. We also sell individual
vouchers for 18 retailers including 
Marks & Spencer, Boots, Argos 
and Debenhams. 
The budget in April this year changed
the way in which VAT is accounted for
on vouchers and we are looking at ways
to offset any additional VAT that we may
have to bear as a result of the changes.
These changes will not, however, affect
our sales of Choice vouchers as they
are exempt from any changes in the
legislation. As Choice vouchers
represent over 70% of our total sales 
of shopping vouchers any additional
costs that we may have to bear should
not be material.
Sales from our third party business
packing gift hampers for Marks &
Spencer, Littlewoods and Provident
Financial remain strong. 
We continue to address our cost base
and are concentrating in particular 
on the sourcing of our products. The
purchasing environment has changed
significantly over the past few years 
and the advent of the internet has made
price comparison and product sourcing
much easier. We are ensuring that we
remain competitive.
Over 16% of our agents correspond
with us via the internet compared to 6%
last year and we are looking at ways in
which we can encourage increased use
of the internet by our agents. This will
speed up the communication process,
eliminate errors and increase efficiency.
We have already seen the benefits of
this at Kleeneze UK and we are looking
to replicate that success at Farepak 
with our market leading web site
www.farepak.co.uk.
Farepak is a stable highly cash
generative business which continues 
to perform well in an interesting niche 
of the mail order market. We will
continue to grow the business through
innovative gift voucher and hamper
offers whilst reducing the cost base
wherever possible.
William Rollason
Chief Executive
13th August 2003
2 1 Kleeneze plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2003
11
Chief Executive’s review
Wendy Hopkins
Wendy Hopkins is a Farepak agent
and also works as an Assistant
Stock Controller at Farepak.
