 06 KLEENEZE plc ANNUAL REPORT 2004 / CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
KLEENEZE UK PROVIDES GOOD VALUE, EVERYDAY PRODUCTS 
THROUGH CATALOGUES DELIVERED DIRECT TO THE HOME BY 
SELF-EMPLOYED DISTRIBUTORS CURRENTLY COVERING THE UK 
AND THE REPUBLIC OF IRELAND.
Turnover at Kleeneze UK fell by 4% to £82.6 million
(2003: £86.3 million) and operating profit before exceptional 
items was stable at £6.6 million (2003: £6.6 million), an increased
operating margin of 8.0% (2003: 7.6%).
The fall in turnover resulted from a reduction in the average number
of active distributors from 16,900 last year to 14,900 this year
together with the short disruption to service levels during the move
to the new distribution centre. We continue to recruit nearly 2,000
distributors each month, but the activation and then retention rates
of distributors year on year has fallen. We believe that this fall in
distributor numbers has been driven mainly by the macro-economic
environment where there is a ready availability of cheap credit.
However, the recent rises in interest rates and the predicted future
rises should help to reverse this effect.
We are changing the way in which we support our distributors by
strengthening the network support roles to ensure that we can
react more quickly to issues that affect both activation and retention.
The retention rate amongst the top 5,000 distributors remains high
as our compensation plan is considered one of the best in the 
UK market place. Our new distribution centre has a modern training
facility and we are increasing both the number and quality of
training programmes offered to our distributors. Over 200 team
leaders are trained every month.
The fall in active distributors has, in part, been offset by a 20%
increase in average sales rate (“ASR”) which is defined as the
average period sales per ordering distributor. ASR has increased
from £510 to £610 since last year. This has partly been driven 
by the continual review of the product range undertaken by the
management team at Kleeneze UK. The Health & Beauty
catalogue, launched in May 2004, incorporates a selection of
Cabouchon branded jewellery for the first time. In June 2004,
Kleeneze UK also launched a range of products from Norfolk
Lavender which have further enhanced the offering.
Kleeneze UK has taken steps to increase the speed to market for 
a number of popular products through the introduction of ‘flyers’ 
to be used by the network. Our most successful flyer this year
featured a range of shredders, which built on the public concern
over personal confidentiality of domestic bills and papers. We 
were able to strengthen this message by utilising our association
with the National Neighbourhood Watch Association (“NNWA”),
who lent their endorsement to this initiative.
Our association with the NNWA is now in its sixth year and has
considerable mutual benefits. Our distributors swiftly and effectively
distributed key seasonal messages on behalf of the NNWA and in
addition Kleeneze UK publishes factsheets for NNWA members 
to use at their local meetings. Kleeneze UK distributors are provided
with best practice photo identification cards, which give added
reassurance on the doorstep. The relationship with NNWA also
provides us with the platform to develop our sponsorship of
Britain’s Best Neighbour Award.
The move to our new distribution centre in Bristol, successfully
completed in April 2004, has enabled us to introduce bar coding
across the product range which has improved both the efficiency
and the accuracy of our order fulfilment. This is driving operational
savings, both in terms of people and stock, and some of the
benefits have already been realised, which has contributed to the
increase in our operating margins from 7.6% to 8.0%. The full
benefits will be seen in the current year.
At the annual Kleeneze UK conference in June 2004, we announced
our first expansion into continental Europe with the launch of our
Dutch operation. Recruitment of Dutch distributors started in early
July and our first orders will be delivered in September 2004. We
are excited by the potential in Holland as there are 6.9 million
households in Holland compared to 24.5 million households in the
UK and 1.3 million in Ireland. Network marketing is a well established
concept in Holland and our extensive research has shown that our
product range should be well received. We anticipate having over
1,000 distributors in place in Holland by September 2004 and see
this as our first step into continental Europe.
To reflect the strategic changes that are being undertaken at
Kleeneze UK, I have taken responsibility for the business. As 
a result Ian Doherty, the Managing Director of Kleeneze UK, left in
July 2004. I would like to thank Ian for his valuable contribution 
to the growth of Kleeneze UK since he joined in August 2001 and
wish him well for the future.
Kleeneze UK is a dynamic business, which has the potential to
grow significantly in the UK in addition to the huge market that
continental Europe offers. The increased capacity of our new
distribution centre provides us with a solid operational base to
support this significant growth potential and we look to the future
with confidence.
1 Kleeneze UK’s new service centre
at Bristol 2 Shaun Morgan picking
an order for dispatch to a Kleeneze
UK distributor 3 The new distribution
centre provides additional capacity 07 KLEENEZE plc ANNUAL REPORT 2004 / CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
*
NEW PRODUCT LAUNCHES, NEW ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY PACKAGING, NEW WEBSITE, NEW PARTNERSHIP PROGRAMMES, 
NEW STAFF INITIATIVES, NEW PRIZES, NEW IDEAS FORUM, NEW TECHNOLOGY , NEW CHARITY FUNDRAISING, NEW DISTRIBUTOR OF THE YEAR
INITIATIVE No.10 INITIATIVE No.10 08 KLEENEZE plc ANNUAL REPORT 2004 / CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
*
NEW PRODUCT LAUNCHES, NEW ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY PACKAGING, NEW WEBSITE, NEW PARTNERSHIP PROGRAMMES, 
NEW STAFF INITIATIVES, NEW PRIZES, NEW IDEAS FORUM, NEW TECHNOLOGY , NEW CHARITY FUNDRAISING, NEW DISTRIBUTOR OF THE YEAR
INITIATIVE No.7 INITIATIVE No.7 09 KLEENEZE plc ANNUAL REPORT 2004 / CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
FAREPAK PROVIDES CHRISTMAS HAMPERS, GIFTS AND SHOPPING
VOUCHERS PURCHASED ON A MONTHLY INSTALMENT BASIS THROUGH
CATALOGUES DISTRIBUTED BY INDEPENDENT AGENTS ACROSS THE UK.
FAREPAK OPERATES UNDER TWO BRANDS, FAREPAK FOOD & GIFTS AND
AN ASSOCIATED COMPANY, HOME FARM HAMPERS.
Turnover at Farepak fell 2% to £76.3 million (2003: £77.9 million),
however, operating profit was up to £1.3 million (2003: £1.2 million),
an increased operating margin of 1.6% (2003: 1.3%).
Our agent numbers fell to 59,000 (2003: 63,000) reflecting lower
recruitment of new agents in a very competitive environment.
Encouragingly our retention rate of existing agents remained steady
at 71%. We are pleased to have held the retention rates of our long
established agents steady in what was a very aggressive year for
the recruitment of both new and existing agents.
The medium term decline in hampers continues and shopping
vouchers now represent 76% of our total sales (2003: 74%). This 
is likely to increase in the coming years as our customers prefer 
the flexibility that vouchers provide. We are, therefore, focusing 
on vouchers and investing in a new range which we will be
launching later this year for Christmas 2005. These vouchers will 
be targeted at a younger audience and marketed separately from
the main catalogue.
Our reliance on voucher dispatches, of some £60 million per annum,
both for our own business, and our other clients, has seen us
invest in a new voucher dispatch room. This facility is being
marketed to support a number of third party clients in the areas 
of incentives and salary replacement schemes.
Farepak supplies several blue chip companies, including Marks &
Spencer, Littlewoods and Provident. These contracts are secure 
for 2004 and we are seeking to build on this excellent base.
We have undertaken a review of our product range and have
concluded that it is too wide and we have too many individual
components. We have, therefore, reduced the number of individual
line items by over 10% year on year and we are seeking to reduce
this by a further 10% next year. This has not affected the overall
range of hampers that we offer but has enabled us to reduce our
supplier base accordingly.
To reduce our hamper production costs further and to improve service
to our customers we streamlined our management structure to
produce a single logistics team combining three teams into one
which should lead to greater efficiencies.
Operating margins increased to 1.6% (2003: 1.3%) as we
continued to focus on becoming more efficient. We have continued
to encourage our agents to use the internet as a means of
communication as this improves both the accuracy and efficiency 
of the order process. 30% of all communication from agents is now
received via the internet, up from 18% a year ago.
Our cost base has been reduced slightly year on year and we are
currently undertaking a fundamental review of the way in which we
operate to reduce this further. As our higher margin hamper
business continues to decline, we will be converting more of our
fixed costs to variable costs.
Farepak selected Macmillan Cancer Relief as its chosen charity.
Macmillan nationally support cancer care nurses across the country,
each of whom cost £100,000 over 3 years. Our long term aim is to
raise £50,000 through staff ‘fun days’ and agent promotions. Funds
raised by staff will benefit local Swindon Macmillan causes.
Focus on staff training to retain and develop our core staff has
resulted in us obtaining 37 NVQs and other advanced qualifications
in the last two years. For our staff size, of just under 100 permanent
people, we are pleased with this significant enhancement to our
people skills. Government funding has also been obtained, making
the overall cost neutral. We continue to focus on our staff with
practical hands on training in our warehouse, new modern
production management methods and development of our IT 
and customer service skills.
Farepak is a cash generative business operating in a market where
growth is driven by low margin voucher sales. We are re-engineering
the way in which we operate to reflect the changing market place
and offset the medium term decline.
WILLIAM ROLLASON
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
13TH AUGUST 2004
1 Production line at Farepak during the busy
packing season 2 Hampers are sealed at the end
of the packing process 3 Completed Christmas
hampers are prepared for dispatch
