 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
THE FOCUS ON STRENGTHENING
THE GROUP’S OPERATIONAL 
AND FINANCIAL POSITION 
HAS PLACED US IN A STRONG
POSITION TO ACCELERATE
GROWTH ACROSS 
THE GROUP.
04 KLEENEZE plc ANNUAL REPORT 2004 / CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
OVERVIEW
The year has seen significant strategic change in the Group with 
the focus on a number of key projects which have positioned 
the Group for further growth against a backdrop of increased
operating efficiencies.
On 6th July 2004 the Group’s 5% shareholding in Premier Direct
Group plc (“Premier”), held since 24th July 2003 and received 
as part of the consideration for the sale of DMG, was sold for 
£1.2 million cash – a profit of £0.9 million. The Group has now
received a total of £4.9 million in cash from the disposal of DMG, 
an increase against the £4.1 million referred to at the time of the
announcement of the disposal. 
The relocation of Kleeneze UK from its historic site to its new
modern distribution centre was completed over Easter 2004. This
move provides Kleeneze UK with the capacity to increase its sales
significantly at the same time as improving operating efficiencies.
The total investment of £2.8 million was fully funded from the 
£4.0 million cash proceeds from the disposal of the previous site.
Following the move to the new site, Kleeneze UK now has the
capacity and the improved systems to fulfil orders outside the UK
and Ireland. Hence, at the Annual Conference on 5th June 2004,
the initial expansion into continental Europe was announced with
the launch of Kleeneze UK’s Dutch operation, an initiative that has 
been explored over many months and is now in a position to be
effectively implemented. The recruitment of Dutch distributors
started on 5th July 2004 with sales commencing in early
September to take advantage of Christmas trading.
Taking account of the strategic changes being undertaken at
Kleeneze UK and its importance to the Group, William Rollason 
has taken over direct management responsibility for Kleeneze UK,
heading up the established management team.
At Farepak the medium term decline in hamper sales continues and
more focus is being directed on reducing fixed overheads to take
account of the change in mix from hampers to shopping vouchers.
Overall, the year has been one of consolidation and laying the
foundations for future growth both from existing operations and
new initiatives. The Group is now in a much stronger position, 
both financially and operationally, and we look to the future 
with confidence. 05 KLEENEZE plc ANNUAL REPORT 2004 / CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
RESULTS FOR THE YEAR
Turnover on continuing operations decreased by 3.2% year on year,
in part reflecting the disruption experienced in service and delivery
levels during the period of transition to the new distribution facility 
at Kleeneze UK. Despite this slight decrease in sales, operating
profit on continuing operations has increased by 1% during the year
to £7.9 million (2003: £7.8 million). This reflects improvements in 
the operating profit margins in both businesses as cost efficiencies
start to be realised. 
Profit before tax on continuing operations before exceptional items
remains unchanged since last year at £8.2 million. Exceptional and
non operating items resulted in a loss before tax of £2.0 million in
the year (2003: £36.0 million). These costs include £6.8 million loss
on disposal of DMG. Discontinued operations contributed further
pre-exceptional losses of £2.0 million in the year, significantly
reduced from the pre-exceptional loss after tax of £8.7 million
recorded for DMG in 2003. Normalised basic earnings per share,
calculated on the profits from continuing operations before
exceptional items, increased to 12.8 pence (2003: 12.7 pence).
Basic loss per share was 5.8 pence, a significant improvement 
on the loss per share of 74.7 pence reported in 2003.
The Group’s continuing operations generated net cash from
operating activities in the year of £8.4 million (2003: £12.7 million).
This reduction in cash generation in part reflects the exceptional
costs associated with the transfer of Kleeneze UK to its new
distribution centre.
Net debt decreased to £11.2 million at the year end
(2003: £16.0 million). At 30th April 2004, the Group had net
liabilities of £12.8 million (2003: £8.7 million).
DIVIDEND
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 2 pence per share
(2003: nil), which together with the interim dividend of 1 pence per
share (2003: nil) will result in a total dividend of 3 pence per share
(2003: nil) for the year. The reinstatement of dividends in the year
reflects the improvement in overall results and stability of the Group
following completion of the disposal of DMG.
The dividend is payable on 6th October 2004 to shareholders who
were on the register on 16th July 2004.
STRATEGY
As we set out to last year, we have completed the disposal of 
DMG and re-located Kleeneze UK to its new distribution centre. 
We have also re-instated the dividend and launched Kleeneze UK 
in continental Europe. We will continue our strategy of growing
Kleeneze UK both organically, through increased product ranges
and increased geographic penetration, and by acquisition. At
Farepak, our strategy of increasing its cash generation and
managing the decline of the hamper business, by focussing on the
opportunities in the shopping voucher market and reducing fixed
overheads, will continue.
THE BOARD
George Pollock resigned from the Board and left the Group on
17th December 2003. He worked for the Group for 28 years and
we would like to take this opportunity to thank him for his long
service and dedication.
Chris Hulland and I are standing for re-election by rotation, together
with Stephen Roberts, who has indicated that he will be stepping
down at the Annual General Meeting to be held in September 2005.
PEOPLE
We appreciate that our principal asset is our people and I would 
like to record my thanks to all of them for their continued support
and hard work during the last year. In particular, the re-location of
Kleeneze UK to their new distribution centre was only achieved
through the dedication of everyone who works there.
PROSPECTS
Kleeneze UK’s return to growth should be driven by improved
retention of distributors supported by increased productivity of the
new Main Book. The recent introduction of higher value products
such as Cabouchon jewellery and new branded ranges such as
Norfolk Lavender toiletry products should also drive growth. The
launch into continental Europe should further support the growth
and lay new foundations for the future.
At Farepak the cost base remains the key area of attention as we
continue to focus on operating efficiencies to offset the decline in
hamper volumes.
The Group is highly cash generative and a number of acquisition
opportunities are being reviewed which should further enhance
growth through using our existing infrastructure.
Overall we remain confident about achieving our expectations for
the current year as a strong performance from Kleeneze UK should
more than offset the decline in Farepak.
SIR CLIVE THOMPSON
CHAIRMAN
13TH AUGUST 2004
