 Kromek Group plc  Annual report and accounts 2014 6
 Dr Arnab Basu MBE,  
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
How would you describe the last year for the Group?
Busy is the ﬁrst word that comes to mind! The business has 
moved from a technology development phase into a period where 
we are now focused on growth that years of investment in our 
technology have enabled. This has required us to be successful 
on several fronts: making good progress on customer-funded 
product development projects; completing the very successful 
operational integration of eV Products; attracting some important 
senior hires; and, of course, the IPO and admission to the 
AIM market.
What has the IPO achieved?
Joining the AIM market gave us capital, liquidity and credibility; 
all of these will help us grow. As well as accessing the capital 
needed for our expansion and scaling-up of activities, meeting 
the stringent requirements needed to successfully complete 
admission to a regulated market gives customers a higher level 
of trust and conﬁdence in us as potential partners. We have also 
beneﬁted from the greater proﬁle. Additionally, if any attractive 
merger and acquisition (“M&A”) opportunities present themselves, 
such as the eV Products and NOVA acquisitions, then our listing 
can only help.
What do you see as Kromek’s key competitive advantages?
Of course the market is competitive but we choose opportunities 
that best utilise our differentiators. We have deep experience, 
know-how and patent-protected manufacturing techniques, 
which allow us to produce world-leading CZT-based radiation 
detectors, as well as the electronics and software which 
analyse the improved information they capture.
With our vertical integration we can put solutions together 
using our range of capabilities in different ways, like “Lego bricks”. 
This allows us to meet the new, emerging needs of our customers 
quickly and can deliver components and products that meet 
their challenges. Collectively I believe these give us a signiﬁcant 
competitive advantage in our target markets.
Is the market adopting your products 
and technologies at the rate you expected?
We are pleased to have seen strong growth and traction this 
year, but at the same time, have had delays that impacted our 
revenues for the year, which we notiﬁed to the market in March. 
We were obviously disappointed that some contracts were 
delayed and we weren’t able to recognise the revenues in the 
period where they were expected within the ﬁscal year. There 
is, however, a strong match between our speciﬁc capabilities 
and urgent customer needs in our target sectors of medical 
imaging, nuclear detection and security screening.
Accurate, quarter by quarter proﬁling can be a challenge when 
dealing with very large organisations and government departments. 
We are proud to be selected by such large-scale organisations 
as there is no better validation of our technology, but what goes 
with that is working to their schedules. This is a lesson that we 
have had to learn. The pipeline and our ability to capitalise on it 
is as strong as ever and the focus for 2014–15 is to build on that.
Why do your customers choose you? 
What beneﬁts does Kromek bring?
Well, that can be answered in several ways, from our technology 
and performance differentiators to our offering of ready-to-use 
solutions. Ultimately, however, in all our application markets, 
the pressing need is for more useful and better quality information 
to make improved assessments of risks, whether that be of cancer, 
radiation contamination or a bomb. This allows either more 
rapid and effective interventions or, equally important, more 
conﬁdent reassurance that all is well.
It is this basic need for deeper insight that Kromek’s imaging 
and detection products are repeatedly demonstrating that they 
can satisfy, evidenced both by new customer sales and by daily 
use of our products in airports and scores of hospitals.
Chief Executive’s Q&A
Overview Kromek Group plc  Annual report and accounts 2014 7
“ Technology leadership forms the basis of our ability to deliver superior 
value to our customers. It comes from focused investment and a deep 
understanding of how to produce, manipulate and engineer CZT into 
cost-effective products for use in multiple applications.”
Is your business model scalable?
Our development of future products and our manufacturing 
capacity are scalable and our approach was designed this way. 
We can share base technologies to a broad degree across sectors. 
This also reduces development cost and risk for us and our partners. 
Our manufacturing can also be stepped up incrementally in line 
with demand. As a result, we will never have to make massive 
capital-intensive generational “bets” as is typical in the 
microprocessor world. Of course, careful investment choices 
will still be required at various stages of our growth.
Do you have the right team in place?
We are always alert to attracting and retaining the right talent 
to help take us further, for example, we focused especially on our 
sales and marketing team this year. Our acquisition of eV Products 
brought in a lot of additional talent too. We have more than 
100 employees across the globe and 19 PhDs amongst them. 
We have a very accomplished and industry-experienced 
technology and product development team.
Why are you in your chosen markets? 
How were they selected?
Key factors are opportunity size and potential for growth and 
the match of the customer needs with our technology strengths. 
Additionally, we seek synergy overlaps in the base technologies 
required to address the selected segments. With competition 
and so many applications and needs for radiation detection, 
we cannot try to meet every possibility in every ﬁeld. We have 
to be disciplined and focused.
Does any one of your core markets excite you more 
than the others?
They excite me equally but in different ways. Medical is our 
biggest opportunity medium term in that, in the last year, we 
have made the biggest advances since the Company was founded. 
The development deal in CT with one of the top four OEMs is 
strategically important and potentially very rewarding.
Shorter term, the aviation security LAGs market is expanding, 
effectively playing catch-up after a period of regulatory delay. 
That, at least, gave us an opportunity to even further strengthen 
our product. Over the next few years, signiﬁcant opportunities 
are still to come in Europe and the rest of the world. Our unique 
ability to become fully integrated into OEM partners’ checkpoint 
scanners, once the current transitional phase of standalone 
equipment is over, is also exciting.
Finally, we are seeing some further opportunities in nuclear 
detection, which is already a large market and has developed 
a lot in the previous 12 months alone.
What are the challenges of being a young company 
competing in large and growing international markets?
Optimal channels to market can be a stretch for a youthful 
company with global opportunities in large markets. We cannot 
afford to ignore the terriﬁc opportunities that OEM partnerships 
offer, albeit with ultimate market access and time dependent on 
them. Our revenues this year represent considerable growth 
but we are still a small company in large competitive markets. 
However, despite these and other challenges, the foundation 
stones have now been laid for the success of the Company 
and the real growth phase is ahead of us. 
Are there further target markets?
In terms of applications markets, our technology platform has 
multiple areas where it could make a difference, but we are 
extremely focused on the three sectors that we have selected. 
In terms of geographic markets, Asia is a very large and attractive 
market and we are working hard to increase penetration. We have 
experienced some encouraging early traction, as evidenced 
by recent contract wins announced since the year end.
What are you hoping to achieve in the next 12 months?
With so many opportunities that could be addressed we will 
certainly need to stay very focused. The coming year is about 
growing revenues, strengthening our capabilities and ensuring 
Kromek is recognised as the radiation detection specialist of 
choice in our target sectors. We want to demonstrate the full 
potential of Kromek by securing further blue-chip contracts with 
world-leading companies and deliver on our existing commercial 
agreements. The combination of those can deliver signiﬁcant 
value back to our shareholders.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Overview
