 Kromek Group plc  Annual report and accounts 2014 4
The Group has seen revenue growth 
across all three trading entities.
 Richard Morgan, Chairman
Introduction
2013–14 was a very challenging year for Kromek but one 
in which important transformational changes were achieved. 
In addition to the successful rationalisation and integration 
of eV Products, which approximately doubled the number of 
employees in the Company, important achievements were made 
in the marketplace. The progress in the contractual partnership with 
one of the leading CT system manufacturers was an important 
step forward for the Company in the medical diagnostic imaging 
market, which is dominated by just four major companies. 
The foundations of this and other advances were laid while 
the Company was preparing for and successfully completing 
its initial public offering (“IPO”) and admission to AIM. 
Unfortunately, it became clear to the Board that some of 
the contracts that had been expected (most of which have 
subsequently been conﬁrmed) were not going to be booked and 
shipped in time for the revenue to be recognised in the ﬁscal 
year to the end of April. This included a promising alliance with 
an emerging Chinese company to develop novel components 
for the medical imaging market in China. As a result, the Board 
realised that the revenue was going to fall short of the budget 
prepared last summer and this was the subject of a public 
announcement on 28 March. While we have met the 
subsequently lowered sales forecast, which shows a signiﬁcant 
growth from the previous year, we are disappointed with the 
shortfall and have taken steps to ensure that our forecasting 
is much improved in the future. The Board continues to spend 
a lot of time reviewing in considerable detail both the strategic 
framework of the business and the operational procedures that 
feed into the ﬁnancial planning and budgeting system. I am 
pleased to report that the changes that were made to the Board 
at the time of the IPO and subsequently have strengthened it 
considerably and we are united in our commitment to improve 
all aspects of our business going forward.
Completing the IPO and raising the amount of funding aimed 
for was a critical step for Kromek. The Company managed to 
achieve a lot of progress in the years leading up to the IPO with 
barely adequate ﬁnancial resources. This culminated in the 
acute ﬁnancial challenges we faced in completing the acquisition 
of eV Products, which we regarded as a vital strategic step in many 
different dimensions. That belief has been more than justiﬁed by 
subsequent events, and the funding raised in the public offering 
has allowed the Company for the ﬁrst time to focus on a number 
of fundamental aspects of the business and improve our 
operational and strategic capability.
Good progress has been made in most of our target markets 
and the Company has started to build on the headway achieved 
in all three major sectors, with the addition of key sales and 
marketing personnel. While the security market (bottle scanners 
for the analysis of liquids, aerosols and gels or “LAGs”) has 
continued to prove challenging, we have conﬁdence in the 
performance capabilities of the Kromek product, which has been 
further reﬁned in the last two years. We have made progress 
in penetrating this market, which only started to become active 
in the second half of last year. Despite having seen some 
disappointments in Japan for our nuclear products, we have 
managed to build on the underlying product platform and have 
won some important new contracts from the US Government 
and other customers. Alongside the progress we have made 
in medical imaging, we feel conﬁdent that the basic metrics 
underpinning the business are moving in the right direction.
Chairman’s statement
Overview Kromek Group plc  Annual report and accounts 2014 5
Financial results
The results for 2013–14 show an increase in revenue to £6.0m 
(2012–13: £2.7m), with the Group returning an adjusted loss 
before tax of £4.3m (2012–13: loss of £4.1m). This represents 
strong revenue growth across the business, up £3.3m on the 
prior year, with second half revenues of £3.7m, ahead of those 
in the ﬁrst half by over 60%. This increase was driven by both 
product sales and revenues from government contracts, as well 
as commercial technology development agreements. The result 
for the year is stated after internal research and development costs 
of £2.0m (2012–13: £0.5m), which have been expensed through 
the income statement. These costs relate to investment in core 
technology, platform development and driving manufacturing 
efﬁciency to provide a strong and enhanced base for future 
proﬁtability. The Group reported a basic and diluted loss per 
share of 5p (2012–13: loss of 8p per share) and an adjusted 
loss per share of 5p (2012–13: loss of 40p per share). At the balance 
sheet date, Group cash stood at £6.6m (2012–13: £0.3m).
Employees and partners
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our stakeholders 
– customers, suppliers, employees and shareholders – whose 
continued efforts and support have been key to our success. 
I would also like to extend my thanks to Charlotta Ginman for 
taking over the audit committee chair in March of this year and 
to Jerel Whittingham for chairing the remuneration committee.
Outlook
Kromek’s area of expertise, radiation detection and imaging, 
represents one of the most basic and important techniques used 
globally for gaining better information about objects and the 
environment. Its importance can be seen on a daily basis in 
hospitals and airports throughout the world, as well as in its 
importance to those, both civil and military, serving to keep 
us safe from threats of various sorts. 
Our ﬁnancial position is robust with no debt and a strong cash 
position. With a strong order book and such a rich opportunity 
set given the Group’s key proprietary technologies, international 
scope and integrated business model, the Board believes the 
Group is well positioned for continued growth and looks forward 
to the future with conﬁdence.
Richard Morgan
Chairman
27 August 2014
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Overview
“A transformational year.”
