 04
La Tasca Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Chief Executive’s overview
Introduction
This has been another good year for the
Company. The results for the 52 weeks
ended 30 April 2006, compare
favourably with the 53 weeks of last
year and are a credit to the whole team.
I remain very proud to work with such
an enthusiastic, hardworking and
dynamic team.
During the year we managed to
increase the profitability of our core 
La Tasca business in the UK as well
investing strategically in new concepts
and types of locations. Our aim is to
capitalise on market trends and to
deliver continued, sustainable, strong
growth in shareholder value. Whilst La
Tasca UK remains the cornerstone of all
our efforts, our three other avenues of
growth: La Tasca in the USA ; a second
brand – La Viña Bar and Restaurant; and
our new concept – Sam & Maxie’s Bar
Grill and Smokehouse; have progressed
well in the year and continue to be
sources of growth. During the year we
opened 14 new restaurants to finish the
year trading 64 restaurants. 
Financial results
Turnover for the period rose from
£48.8m to £55.6m, an increase of
13.8%. EBITDA was up to £10.0m from
£8.4m an increase of 18.5% and
operating profit (pre amortisation of
goodwill) was up to £7.1m from £6.1m,
an increase of 16.8%. Profit before tax
(before goodwill amortisation) was up
55.3% to £6.1m and diluted earnings
per share (before goodwill amortisation)
increased by 50.1% to 7.88p.
We remain focused upon delivering
returns on investment that are at the
top end of the industry. Our target
when the company floated in February
2005 was to achieve an average 26%
restaurant EBIT return on total invested
capital and I am pleased to report that
we continue to be ahead of this target
with an average return on capital
invested for the full year across the
portfolio of 28%.
This good performance has been
achieved despite experiencing
considerable increase in operating
costs, of which the licensing reform,
duty increases, utility increases, rates
revaluation and minimum wage were
the most significant. In addition, we
have also had to bear the costs of five of
our new openings commencing trading
late in the last quarter which, together
with the increased pre-opening costs
associated with Sam & Maxie’s and the
development of our third restaurant in
Baltimore in the USA, have offset the
contribution from the restaurants
opened earlier in the year. It is anticipated
that the costs in the current year will be
more in line with previous years.
As at the year end, the net debt position
of the Company was £16.7m an increase
of just over £2m (2005: £14.6m)
despite £10.7m of capital expenditure
being incurred in the year, clearly
demonstrating the strong cash
generative nature of the Company.
A final dividend is recommended of
0.74p (2005: Nil) per share and, if passed
by shareholders at the AGM, will be paid
on 29 September 2006 to all shareholders
on the register as at 1 September 2006.
This will bring the total dividend for the
year to 1.11p per share.
Operations
During the year our operating team 
has taken on additional responsibilities
associated with our expanding estate.
They have responded well to these new
challenges, and I am very grateful to
them for their contribution to the
performance of the business.
We are continually focused on building
the infrastructure of the business for
the future. We have developed a strong
management team for La Tasca UK and
have invested heavily this year into the
appointment of a ‘Brand Champion’ for
each of the other three parts of our
business, La Tasca USA, La Viña and Sam
& Maxie’s. We have also increased the
number of single site managers
operating on the Managing Partner
scheme and have improved our
retention of management by 8%.
People are key to the restaurant
business and we continue to make
significant strides in improving the
training that our employees receive 
and the standards that our customers
enjoy. In recognition of this work, the
Company received ‘The Best Place to
Work in Hospitality’ Award in April this
year. This accolade is a credit to all of
our team.
La Tasca UK
La Tasca UK remains the major profit
and growth contributor within the
Group and at the year end we had 
54 La Tasca restaurants in the UK.
Maintaining and evolving our brands 
is of paramount importance and
throughout the year, La Tasca UK has
seen many areas of product and brand
development including design
enhancements in our restaurants and 
a new menu style and presentation. 
We are particularly pleased with the
performance of the mature restaurants
in the portfolio. Once again this year,
our oldest restaurant, in Deansgate,
Manchester (13 years), has enjoyed
both increased turnover and increased
profitability compared to last year and,
like the majority of older La Tasca
restaurants, is able to deliver solid
results with little ongoing capital,
thereby improving the cash on cash
returns on capital. 
We have sought to increase the
geographic representation of La Tasca
UK, particularly in the South East. This
year we have increased the number of
sites we operate in London and believe
there remains considerable potential 
in the London market. We now have 
six Central London La Tasca restaurants
and believe that there are many
opportunities to open further
restaurants in high footfall areas, 
where ‘daisy chaining’ is evident and
where we can also build our brand
awareness through strategically
increasing our exposure. 
Overall, we continue to remain focused
on maintaining our core offering of
serving good quality Spanish tapas in 
a fun and vibrant Spanish atmosphere. 05
La Tasca Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
“We have a proven business that
has much potential to grow in an
expanding marketplace. We have
the infrastructure in place and
have nurtured our people to 
take advantage of this highly
attractive environment.”
James Horler – Chief Executive
54 La Tasca restaurants in the UK 06
La Tasca Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Chief Executive’s overview
continued
Expansion
The Company opened 14 new restaurants throughout the year and concluded the
year with 64 restaurants trading. Of this, the breakdown was; 
New restaurants
La T asca UK 8
La T asca USA 1
La Viña 4
Sam & Maxie’s 1
The Company continues to operate in different styles of properties in differing
locations. I have updated the sub sector breakdown of these with the addition 
of the newly opened restaurants. Within the UK, the breakdown is currently;
Restaurants
City/Town mixed use 32
High Streets 14
Shopping Centres 6
Leisure Parks 6
Suburbs 3
Total UK restaurants 61
The openings in the year were heavily weighted towards the end of the year, with five
out of the 14 opening within the last seven weeks of the financial year. 
“We have further developed La Viña
and are excited about the prospects
for this brand which we intend to
expand. Sam & Maxie’s has
progressed from concept to reality.”
Expanding the La Viña brand
New Bar, Grill & Smokehouse concept La Tasca USA
La Tasca USA also had a good year. The
restaurants in both Washington DC and
Clarendon, Virginia have performed
well, with Washington DC continuing to
be in the top five turnover restaurants
within the Group and enjoying the
largest like for like sales growth within
our portfolio. Both restaurants make
significant contribution to the
Company’s operating profit. The
opening of our restaurant in Baltimore
was delayed until March 2006 due to
vacant possession being achieved later
than was originally anticipated,
however the restaurant is now open
and is trading in line with our
expectations. Our USA strategy is
unchanged, and is to build up to seven
restaurants, prove that we have a
successful and proven business model
and then explore ways of creating
shareholder value with the structuring
of a financial partner with the local
management experience and resources
to further develop the USA market.
La Viña Bar and Restaurant
La Viña Bar and Restaurant has had 
a very good year. We opened four 
new La Viña restaurants, in Leeds,
Newcastle, Sheffield and Manchester.
There is plenty of scope to have a
second, more premium style and priced
Spanish brand, offering a different
menu to a different audience and
thereby strengthening our position as
the only national operator of Spanish
restaurants within the UK. La Tasca and
La Viña are complementary to each
other. During the year we have
developed La Viña in terms of menu,
service standards, design and brand
values and we remain confident that
there is significant opportunity for 
La Viña nationwide. We are currently
looking at opportunities to expand 
La Viña into London where there is
considerable scope for this brand.
Sam & Maxie’s Bar, Grill and
Smokehouse
We have created a third concept, 
Sam & Maxie’s. This new Bar, Grill and
Smokehouse concept opened in April
2006 in Stevenage Leisure Park. Whilst
it is still at an early stage in its
development, we are very confident
that with Sam & Maxie’s we have
created a concept that has the potential
to become a brand, to open in many
formats and locations nationwide 
and deliver high returns on investment
and strong shareholder value. Two
further Sam & Maxie’s will open prior 
to Christmas this year, one in the 
highly successful Trafford Centre 
in Manchester and the other in 
Milton Keynes.
Outlook
The new financial year has begun
slowly, affected primarily by the greater
than anticipated impact of the football
World Cup falling in what is a
traditionally busy few weeks for the
Company. Coupled with this, our
opening programme for the current
year is again predominantly late second
half weighted. As a result, we anticipate
there being little contribution from
these restaurants in the current year
whilst the pre-opening costs will have
been incurred in the year. In total, we
aim to open up to 14 new restaurants;
two will be in the USA and the
remainder split between our three 
UK brands, La Tasca, La Viña and 
Sam & Maxie’s. 
We are operating in the buoyant 
casual dining sector and anticipate 
that trading will return to normal levels
following the end of the World Cup. 
We have an excellent business that
generates good returns and we have
developed new income streams and
brands that augur well for the future.
We have put in place the infrastructure
for the business to grow; people,
management and systems to build a
bigger business. We are confident of
delivering further progress in the
current year.
James Horler
Chief Executive
4 July 2006
07
La Tasca Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
