 Ladbrokes plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
04
Chairman’s statement Peter Erskine, Chairman, looks  
at the Group’s performance  
over the last 12 months and  
how it’s positioned for the future.
Dear Shareholder,
In writing to you for the first time as Chairman of Ladbrokes 
I am very aware that 2009 represents the toughest year for 
the Company since 1994/5 when the National Lottery was 
introduced. I was attracted to joining Ladbrokes not only 
because of its track record but also because of the growth 
potential it offers – both in terms of building upon our UK 
presence and extending the brand as new markets regulate. 
Ladbrokes is the most recognised betting and gaming brand  
in the UK and also enjoys a good international reputation. 
Although 2009 has been a challenging year it does not  
change my belief in this Company’s potential. 
Peter Erskine
Chairman
fit for the  future 2009 – A challenging year
Twelve months ago, when I joined the Company, it was  
expected that the industry should be relatively recession  
resilient compared to other consumer facing businesses. 
However, as the year progressed, it became apparent that the 
changes to our customer demographic have made the business 
more economically sensitive and we have seen a resultant 
decline in the amounts being staked. In addition to this, sporting 
results have been in the customers’ favour, with a gross win 
margin for the UK Retail business and eGaming Sportsbook 
business of at least one percentage point less than 2008. 
Following this significant margin weakness combined with the 
accumulating effect of financing, trading risks and the overall 
challenges in forecasting this business, in October, the Board 
concluded that it was no longer prudent to pursue a strategy of 
purely organic debt reduction. The rights issue was successfully 
completed in late October with 95% valid acceptances. I firmly 
believe that this financial strength will underpin the Company’s 
future growth.
37932_pp001-009.indd   4 25/02/2010   19:39 Ladbrokes plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
05
Importantly, the Group is demonstrating an increased focus 
on operational excellence. I believe that the wide-ranging 
programme of operational and strategic initiatives that we  
have put in place will start to show increasing benefits through 
the course of this year and beyond.
Strategy 
Our customer base and core markets are changing and our  
long-term strategy continues to evolve and adapt. The three 
strands of our strategy, UK Retail, eGaming and International 
remain as before, with the focus upon seamless execution and 
consistent delivery.
Over the following ten pages I have set out what our short- and 
long-term priorities are and I am confident that this wide-ranging 
programme of operational and strategic initiatives will gain 
traction through the current year. In addition, the actions  
we have taken to strengthen our balance sheet through the 
rights issue, have left us with a robust financial position. 
Consequently, we look forward positively with a heightened 
sense of momentum.
People
I have spent much time in the different businesses since 
last January and have been impressed by the strengths and 
commitment of the people. You will see in our Corporate 
Responsibility section on page 32, the importance that we  
place on our people. 
In November we strengthened the Board with the appointment 
of Sly Bailey, Chief Executive Officer of Trinity Mirror plc and 
Darren Shapland, Chief Financial Officer of J Sainsbury plc, as 
non-executive directors. Both are highly experienced executives 
with a track record of significant achievements and I believe that 
their extensive knowledge of retail and media will be of significant 
benefit as we take the business forward.
Nicholas Jones and Henry Staunton who have been non-executive 
directors since 2002 and 2006 respectively have decided to 
retire at the coming Annual General Meeting and we thank them 
for their significant contribution. Darren Shapland has been 
appointed a member of the audit committee and will become  
the committee’s Chairman on Henry Staunton’s retirement. 
In January 2010, following almost 20 years with the Company, 
it was announced that Chris Bell is to step down as Chief 
Executive. He will not be standing for re-appointment at this 
year’s Annual General Meeting. Chris and the Board agreed 
that it was an appropriate time to seek new leadership for the 
business. Chris’ commitment to Ladbrokes has been invaluable 
and to ensure continuity he has agreed to stay on in his role and 
do all to support the Company during the transition. The search 
process for his successor is ongoing and we shall update the 
market in due course.
Dividend
In line with the disclosure at the time of the rights issue the  
Group will not be paying a final dividend (2008: 7.71 pence  
per share, as adjusted for the bonus element of the rights issue).  
The total dividend for 2009 is therefore 3.5 pence (2008:  
14.15 pence) per share, or 2.98 pence (2008: 12.05 pence)  
per share as adjusted for the bonus element of the rights issue.
The Board intends to resume a progressive dividend policy,  
from the 2010 interim dividend onwards, with a target dividend 
cover of approximately 2.0 times underlying earnings excluding 
High Rollers.
Summary
In the period from 1 January to 16 February Group net  
revenue (excluding High Rollers) declined 4.6% against the  
prior period in 2009, with the severe weather conditions leading 
to a high level of UK and Irish horse race abandonments and 
football match postponements. Despite this, lower gross profits 
tax and operating costs resulted in January’s operating profit 
being ahead of last year and our internal plan.
In UK Retail OTC amounts staked were down 11.2% with net 
revenue down 5.8%, reflecting a stronger margin and lower 
free bets. Average gross win per machine per week was down 
4.0% against the comparative period last year. The trial of new 
machines is well underway and early results are promising. 
eGaming net revenue was down 0.5% overall with Sportsbook 
showing 8.0% growth. 
Since the start of the year, the High Rollers business has 
contributed a further £8.6 million of operating profit. 
With a strengthened balance sheet we remain confident in our 
ability to emerge from the economic downturn with a stronger, 
more focused business with good growth opportunities and we 
are committed to rising to the challenges that lie ahead. 
Peter Erskine
Chairman
f It for the  future 37932_pp001-009.indd   5 24/02/2010   07:47
