 Ladbrokes plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
04
Peter Erskine
Chairman
Dear Shareholder,
2010 has been a significant year of change for Ladbrokes.
In April, following a thorough recruitment process with many 
high calibre candidates, we appointed Richard Glynn as the 
new Chief Executive of the Group. Aside from his relevant 
online experience (after nine years at Sporting Index) and 
analytical skills, what impresses me most is Richard’s 
ambition and enthusiasm for the business. His desire to 
succeed and restore Ladbrokes to a position of leadership 
within the industry is infectious. 
He has executed an honest, thorough and expeditious 
appraisal of the business. This confirmed that whilst our 
brand remains amongst the best in the gambling industry 
we have fallen behind the competition in areas such as 
technology and digital marketing. 
Strategy
Over the next few pages Richard has taken a candid 
approach to discussing the challenges which the business 
now faces, as well as outlining how he and his team plan to 
overcome them. He has prioritised six objectives or ‘Critical 
Success Factors’ and the Group is now fully focused on 
achieving them. 
Organisational change
To implement these changes effectively the management 
team has been restructured. This revised organisational 
structure addresses the historic lack of alignment in what 
had been an operationally siloed business as well as 
promoting a greater level of responsibility and accountability 
throughout. Offices have been consolidated with everybody 
moved to the head office at Rayners Lane, reflecting a one 
customer one company ethos. A number of new hires have 
been made to strengthen the existing team.
Chairman’ s  
statement
Our Chairman, Peter Erskine, 
looks back at the  
performance of the Group 
over the past 12 months 
and considers how recent 
changes to the Board, senior 
management appointments 
and a newly aligned 
operational structure,  
position it for the future. Overview
Ladbrokes plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
05
The report on Corporate Governance is set out on  
pages 32 to 36. During 2010 the Board has been applying 
the principles relating to its role and effectiveness.  
This included taking a lead in Richard Glynn’s appointment, 
reshaping the structure of the Board and developing the 
new strategy for the Company’s long term success.
Dividend
In line with our stated intention to resume a progressive 
dividend policy the Group will be paying a final dividend  
of 3.75 pence per share taking the full year dividend to  
7.60 pence per share. This dividend is approximately  
2.0 times covered by underlying earnings, excluding the 
impact of High Rollers and the effect of the HMRC 
settlement in April 2010. 
The dividend will be payable on 1 June 2011 to shareholders 
on the register as at 25 February 2011.
Summary
Within the context of a tough economic climate and  
a material organisational restructure, the continued 
commitment, enthusiasm and team spirit of people in  
all parts and at every level of the Ladbrokes business  
has been encouraging.
I am satisfied with the progress made during 2010.  
The business has delivered an improved performance  
with operating profit
(1)(2)
 up 20.9% on last year driven by 
double digit profit growth across all divisions. The strength 
of the balance sheet has been enhanced by a 29.1% 
reduction in net debt. 
We have established a solid platform for growth and defined 
clear, ambitious but achievable objectives on which to focus 
and I am confident that we now have the right team, with 
the right skills and the right strategy to make them a reality.
Peter Erskine
Chairman
In August Gary McIlraith joined us from Alix Partners as 
Managing Director of Digital Channels, International and 
Strategy. Gary’s expertise at delivering enhanced customer 
performance in the highly segmented online environment  
is particularly valuable in the rapidly changing digital age. 
As a consequence of the restructuring and flattening 
of reporting lines, John O’Reilly decided, after a very 
successful 18 years, to leave Ladbrokes to seek  
new challenges.
In December Stephen Vowles started as Director of 
Customer Experience, a role which reflects the Group’s 
commitment to adopt a customer centric approach 
throughout its operation, offer and brand positioning. 
Stephen’s brand experience includes eight years with 
Proctor & Gamble where he played a pivotal role in the 
launch of Nectar. 
In February 2011 Nick Rust joined us from Gala Coral as 
Managing Director of Retail. He is a highly experienced retail 
betting and gaming executive with a very good industry 
reputation. This appointment has allowed Richard Ames  
to take up a key central role as Managing Director of 
Consumer Operations with responsibility for delivery of 
cross-Group operations in areas such as technology, 
trading and business intelligence. 
Finally, after 16 years association with the Group, Brian 
Wallace, Group Finance Director, has advised the Board of 
his intention to stand down as a Director. Brian has agreed 
to remain in his role until late summer to help the change 
go as smoothly as possible. On behalf of the Board and 
the senior team at Ladbrokes I would like to thank him for 
the significant contribution he has made to the Group over 
many years and wish him every future success.
Board and Corporate Governance
The Board has also been further enhanced by the 
appointment of John Kelly as Senior Independent Non-
executive Director. John has an in depth knowledge of the 
industry having previously been Chief Executive Officer and 
Chairman of the Gala Coral Group. John’s appointment 
adds another string to our bow and after having added 
Darren Shapland and Sly Bailey in December 2009, I feel we 
have a strong and experienced Board who are ready and 
able to tackle the challenges to come.
Meetings with shareholders over the past 12 months have 
served to emphasise the importance which is placed on  
the Board and its corporate governance. I am pleased  
with how the Board is interacting and developing. Board 
meetings have a healthy level of debate which provides  
me with confidence that each Board member is heavily 
engaged in understanding and advising on the subjects 
being discussed. 
Notes: 
(1)
  Continuing operations excluding High Rollers.
(2)
 Profit before tax, finance costs and non-trading items.
