 Making 
Ladbrokes 
favourite
Below are the six critical success factors 
which the business has prioritised in  
order to realise its strategic ambition  
and grow shareholder value 
Focusing on  
brand and 
consumer
Evolve the brand based  
upon integrated approach to  
marketing, placing customer  
experience and insight at the  
heart of our offer
cus s s si i i i i in n n ng g g o
Delivering 
technological 
excellence
Invest in technology solutions  
to increase control over and  
differentiation of product
eliv v ve e e er r r ri i i ing
Building upon  
our retail strength
Optimise machine performance,  
operational efﬁciency and cost  
reduction. Margin enhancement  
and leverage intelligence  
from OddsOn!
di in n ng g g g u u up
Establishing a 
strong digital
 
capability
Develop best in market products.  
Most effective customer  
acquisition and retention.  
Widen distribution through  
mobile leadership
bl l li i i i is s s sh h h h h hi i in
Maintaining 
regulatory 
leadership
Continue to play a lead  
role in ensuring changes  
to tax and charges are  
commercially equitable
int t t t ta a a ai i i i i in n nin
Develop our 
pricing, trading 
and liability
 
management
Create competitive pricing, trading  
and liability management  
to improve product range 
and optimise margin 
vel l l lo o o op p p p o
Ladbrokes plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
08 Business review
Ladbrokes plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
09
Chief  
Executive’s 
review
Richard Glynn
Chief Executive
Why did you want to join 
Ladbrokes?
Put simply I wanted the best job in the sector and I’m 
delighted to have been given the opportunity. When I think 
back to when I was in my twenties my friends and I would 
all go to Ladbrokes when we wanted to place a bet. It was  
a growth company and an innovator. In recent years it  
has become less competitive. However I believe it has 
significant core strengths and upside potential and with  
a clearer focus, some targeted investment, a lot of hard 
work and more decisive execution, we can restore 
Ladbrokes to its industry leading position. 
This is a big opportunity because there are some very clear 
and achievable things that we can do that will make a big 
difference to this Company’s position in the marketplace. 
This year we have been able to make a start on some of 
these things and this has already helped us to achieve some 
good results. Whilst we have now broken ground, the next 
two years will be crucial as we develop our technology, 
marketing capabilities and business intelligence, 
foundations that will enable us to compete more  
effectively in a fast-changing marketplace. 
What has been clear to me for some time is that Ladbrokes 
has been over-reliant on its brand and has not invested 
enough to enable it to compete. I believe that with a much 
clearer strategic approach and the right investment to 
enable it, we can make Ladbrokes favourite. 
What were the most signiﬁcant 
things you found when you joined 
the Company?
I undertook a thorough assessment of the business when 
I joined. I wanted to look at its strengths and weaknesses 
and make an honest appraisal of where we were and where 
we needed to be. I have to say that while I have identified 
many things that can be improved there are also many 
things that have impressed me and even surprised me 
about this Company. I knew before I came that Ladbrokes 
had a strong brand, a strong balance sheet and a reputation 
for working effectively with regulators. 
I’ve been impressed at the strength of the Retail estate 
and the continued focus on operational efficiency and 
cost controls as well as the many talented people here who 
have welcomed the opportunity to contribute to a genuine 
change in our culture and approach. Their impressive level 
of knowledge and a willingness to work hard is coupled with 
a tangible desire for success. If I didn’t know it before I 
came, I am now convinced that the core ingredients needed 
to reignite this business are all here. I did find a lack of 
strategic direction, underinvestment and a siloed approach 
to doing business that was holding the Company back. 
However we have worked, and continue to work, hard to 
address these historical weaknesses and to outline a clear 
path to making the business great again.  Ladbrokes plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
 10
Chief 
Executive’s
review
continued
(i)  Building upon our retail strength 
(ii) Focusing on brand and consumer 
(iii) Maintaining regulatory leadership 
(iv)  Developing our pricing, trading  
and liability management
(v) Delivering technological excellence
(vi) Establishing a strong digital capability
In some areas we are more advanced than others – for 
example in Retail we have done some excellent work to 
control costs and optimise the profitability of the estate.  
The contract with Global Draw, announced earlier in 2010, 
to supply new machines to our UK shops began in January 
2011. We expect the new machines, their enhanced content 
and an improved operational focus to drive material 
improvements to machine profits in 2011.
Our brand is strong, but we have been underinvested in  
it over recent years and it has lacked consistency. We 
now need to make it more relevant to today’s consumers. 
We also know that Ladbrokes has a strong regulatory 
reputation and we will continue to focus on this area  
to ensure that regulation is sensible and proportionate  
in those markets where we currently operate and may 
choose to operate in the future. 
The final three areas are interlinked and rely on us investing 
in systems, skills and technologies to maximise the 
potential of the business across all channels and across  
our existing markets. 
By building an optimised pricing, trading and liability 
management system we can offer an improved range of 
products, including wider and deeper Bet In Play markets. 
It will also enable us to maximise our margin. 
This relies on having the best trading platform available and 
that means investment in technology. Technology is also 
core to our Digital business where we are already focused 
on improving our understanding of the customer and 
expanding our product offer. Mobile is a good example of 
this and we have recently launched a range of smartphone 
apps; Sports Bet, Kick Off and Blackjack, prioritising 
marketing spend in this area to support our ambitions. 
E-excellence is about the skills that we require to ensure 
this technology delivers to its utmost potential through 
better customer relationship management, better search 
engine optimisation and an improved ability to recruit and 
retain customers. 
Together these elements make us an e-enabled business 
with the potential to compete much more effectively 
at home and crucially in the international marketplace  
where we may need to partner with brands or tender 
for government licences to secure the best opportunities. 
What do you think are your key 
challenges at Ladbrokes?
The most recent success of the business has primarily been 
driven by an operational focus on retail betting and gaming. 
Whilst our Digital business has grown significantly since 
launching in 2000, it is currently not as competitive as it 
ought to be in a rapidly evolving marketplace, particularly 
when you consider our brand heritage. There are several 
challenges which we must meet head on in order to  
change this. 
In order to address them we first needed to restructure the 
siloed nature of the business. Operationally the Company 
has historically been divided by product with a lack 
of alignment meaning an inconsistent and at times 
commercially inefficient approach. We have put in place 
a completely new management structure with roles and 
responsibilities focused on delivering to the customer, 
regardless of the channel. 
Having set the structure it was crucial that we brought in 
the right people to enhance our existing talent base. During 
2010 we appointed; Gary McIlraith, Director of Digital 
Channels, International Development and Strategy; Nick 
Rust, Managing Director of Retail; Stephen Vowles, Director 
of Customer Experience and Andrew Harley, Group Human 
Resources Director. We now have a strong senior team 
focused on delivery of a clear vision, supported by an 
experienced and knowledgeable Board. We’ve brought 
in people with the right skills to make this a business that 
responds to the customers’ needs whichever channel they 
choose to interact with us.
We are now well positioned to tackle the other challenges 
facing the business.
What approach are you taking to 
meeting these challenges?
With the structure and people in place I’ve set some very 
clear objectives for the business. I’ve called these our 
critical success factors and have summarised them as: 
Executive structure
Brian  
Wallace 
Group Finance
Nick Rust 
Retail
Richard Ames 
Consumer 
Operations
Stephen  
Vowles 
Customer 
Experience
Gary McIIraith 
Digital 
International & 
Strategy
Andrew  
Harley 
Group HR
Richard  
Glynn 
Chief Executive Ladbrokes plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
 11
Business review
Can you explain your  
online strategy?
Ladbrokes has seen strong growth in the online gambling 
sector over the past ten years to the point where Digital 
now accounts for over 30% of Group operating profit
(1)(2)
. 
However during this period we have also seen the emergence 
of many new competitors in the online space and therefore 
need to invest and further develop in order to become more 
competitive. Our online strategy is focused as follows:
(i)  Reinforcing our reputation as a leader in sports 
betting. Whilst many of our customers enjoy playing our 
world-class Casino, Poker, Bingo and Games, many of 
them came to us first to bet on their favourite sport. Our 
heritage and expertise in sports betting gives us a head 
start against newer market entrants but we have to 
continue to innovate, in areas such as Bet In Play and 
mobile sports betting, to stay ahead.
(ii)  Having the best online products. We are constantly 
expanding the range of sports events and markets 
available to customers and regularly introducing new 
and exciting casino games. In 2011 we plan to have circa 
27,000 Bet In Play events available and will continue to 
innovate to ensure Ladbrokes customers have access  
to the best betting and gaming products available in  
the market. 
(iii)  Customer closeness. I want Ladbrokes to have a 
better understanding of its customers than any of our 
competitors. In this way we can deliver products better 
tailored to their needs and an improved customer 
experience. Ladbrokes is a trusted brand, which is 
especially important to online customers. We will build 
on this strength and give customers more reasons to 
choose Ladbrokes in the future. 
(iv)  Developing our online marketing capabilities. 
The online world has become increasingly competitive 
and the skills needed to attract and retain customers 
more sophisticated. In the last year we have invested 
significantly in increasing our online marketing 
capabilities and expect this to improve our profitability 
going forward. 
Establishing a strong  
digital capability
Digital now represents over 30% of Group 
operating proﬁt
(1)(2)
. We will make further 
investment over the next two years to  
develop a market leading offer and enable 
further growth
(1)
 Continuing operations excluding High Rollers
(2)
 Profit before tax, finance costs and non-trading items Ladbrokes plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
 12
Chief 
Executive’s
review
continued
Y ou seem to have fallen behind 
some of your competitors in UK 
Retail. What steps are you taking  
to address this?
The financial performance of the UK Retail business is 
measured by looking at the level of OTC revenue, machine 
revenue and operating costs. Whilst our level of OTC gross 
win per shop is competitive, we see clear opportunities to 
increase our gross win percentage. Indeed we are already 
taking steps to improve our pricing, trading and liability 
management, all of which will help to do this.
We also recognise that our existing machine performance has 
fallen behind in the market but we have well defined plans to 
address this. As I have already mentioned, we have changed 
our machines supplier and we will complete a rollout of the 
brand new ‘Vision’ cabinet during the first half of 2011. In 
preparation for this we have appointed a specific management 
team whose sole focus is on improving operational 
performance and the training of staff ahead of and during 
the rollout process. We have very clear performance targets in      
this area and aim to align our machine profitability to that of our 
closest competitors over the next two years. The evidence is 
already pointing to good rates of growth in 2011. 
The control of costs in Retail has been a key focus and 
there have been tremendous strides in this area over the 
past 18 months. Whilst we expect our costs to increase 
due to a change in VAT and our machines arrangement, 
we continue to prioritise cost control particularly within 
the context of existing economic uncertainty in the UK 
and have implemented a pay freeze throughout the 
business for the second consecutive year.
Retail will also benefit from our increased customer focus and 
from the brand work that we will be conducting during 2011. In 
addition the focus upon improving our technology capabilities 
particularly our trading, pricing and liability management 
expertise will support our objective of maximising revenues 
and minimising costs in the Retail business. 
Finally as I have already mentioned we’ve appointed Nick 
Rust, as Retail Managing Director. Nick brings with him a 
strong track record of performance as Managing Director  
of Coral Retail. 
After a detailed trial and evaluation process of all 
national operators Ladbrokes agreed a four year 
contract with Global Draw for the supply of new 
gaming machines to our UK Retail estate. Global 
Draw is the market leader in this ﬁeld, supplying 
and operating over 18,000 server based gaming 
machines in over 4,000 venues worldwide. Rollout 
of the new machines began in January and will be 
completed during the ﬁrst half of 2011.
The new Vision cabinet, which will be exclusive  
to Ladbrokes, is an evolution of the successful 
Nevada dual screen terminal, with additional 
functionality derived from the brand new  
Videobet platform. Speciﬁc features include new 
promotional and marketing tools to enhance 
tournament mode and allow speciﬁcally targeted 
campaigns focused on individual games managed 
centrally or locally. The platform is fully integrated 
with Ladbrokes BS2000 (EPOS), and loyalty  
card systems.
The agreement allows us to offer customers the 
best of both worlds with the ability to play the 
most popular games from the established 
Barcrest terminals and slots games, as well as  
the new Global Draw products, including market 
leading 20p Roulette, Blackjack, and a range of 
popular slots games created by Reeltime, Games 
Media and third party providers. 
We will have access to an extensive range of new 
games throughout the duration of the agreement 
from a variety of games designers, with new B2/
B3/Category C products and a mix of exclusive 
content being introduced every year.
Ladbrokes is conﬁdent that the combination of a 
new Global Draw cabinet, a wide range of proven 
successful content displayed on a menu and 
layout already familiar to existing Ladbrokes 
machine players is a winning one.
Roll out of the 
new Global Draw 
machines will be 
completed during 
the ﬁrst half of 2011
Building upon our  
retail strength
In a fast-changing market place the strength 
of retail provides not only a stable source of 
regulated revenue with growth potential but 
also delivers brand beneﬁts across all channels Ladbrokes plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
 13
Business review
How are you looking to use 
technology to enable the strategy?
The development of our technology is critical to our 
ambition to become a truly e-enabled business. It can 
enable us to become better at what we do in so many 
different ways. It will underpin best in class pricing, trading 
and liability management and this gives us the tools we 
need to manage risk, improve trading margin and 
differentiate our consumer offer. 
In 2011, we will continue to develop our pricing, trading and 
liability management platform, building on the progress we 
made in 2010. We will also implement a new eCommerce 
platform that has all of the features you would expect from  
a leading e-enabled business. This includes improved site 
search capabilities, a single customer wallet for all products 
and our own front end platform that lets us seamlessly and 
easily integrate the best Sportsbook and gaming products 
available in the market. The eCommerce project will take 
approximately 18 months to complete, but we have already 
begun and the improvements to our platform will start to 
come through in 2011. Technological development will 
also enable better use of data and content and improved 
business intelligence which will enhance our strong brand 
and customer base. Strength in these areas will enable  
us to deliver improved customer satisfaction and will 
increase our competitive edge in what is a rapidly 
evolving marketplace. 
How important do you  
think mobile betting will  
be in future?
We see mobile as an important part of providing a complete 
customer offer in a rapidly evolving marketplace. We have 
invested accordingly in 2010 and the launch of our new and 
exciting Sports Bet, Blackjack and Kick Off smartphone  
apps ensures that we are well placed to simplify and 
improve the betting experience of existing customers  
as well as reaching out to new ones. Indeed our  
innovation in this area was recently recognised with  
us winning the Mobile Gambling Award for Mobile  
Entertainment at the recent Future Mobile Awards
(1)
. 
We see mobile as a strong growth opportunity and 
it will be supported by new marketing campaigns in 2011.
234
1 Future Mobile Awards
2 Sports Bet
3 Blackjack  
4 Kick Off
“Ladbrokes has consistently sought to promote the 
mobile channel as a key part of its online strategy, and 
has been rewarded with strong customer growth.”
1
Focusing on brand  
and consumer
The Ladbrokes name is widely trusted and 
leads the market in terms of unprompted 
awareness. We must build upon this to restore 
the edge to our brand, widen our appeal and 
build customer lifetime value Ladbrokes plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
 14
Chief 
Executive’s
review
continued
What are your plans to grow 
outside the UK?
We believe that regulated markets offer the best opportunity 
for Ladbrokes to expand our business and create value for 
shareholders. We are in favour of appropriate regulation that 
benefits consumers by ensuring operators are regulated 
whilst generating necessary tax revenue for governments 
and creating an incentive for operators like ourselves to 
compete on a level playing field generating a fair return  
on our investment. 
We already have market leading retail operations in 
Belgium, Ireland and Spain and in 2011 we will begin to 
operate online in South Africa through a business venture 
based on a regulated licence awarded in 2010. 
In 2010 we saw preparatory action in many countries, 
particularly within Europe, for legislation to regulate online 
gambling. We are watching those markets closely and, 
where appropriate regulation is adopted, we will look at the 
potential for Ladbrokes to enter and compete successfully 
on a market by market basis.
Develop our pricing, 
trading and liability 
management
Pricing, trading and liability management lie  
at the heart of a betting company. They are 
fundamental to further enhancing our  
reputation as a leader in sports betting which  
is where our heritage lies and which is often the 
point of entry for customers new to Ladbrokes
Maintaining 
regulatory 
leadership 
In an environment of regulatory change 
continuing to play a lead role in working 
alongside trade bodies, industry representatives 
and governments will help minimise the 
exposure of the business and our industry  
to future tax increases Ladbrokes plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
 15
Business review
How active do you intend to be in 
the area of regulation and what 
are your priorities?
We have always played and will continue to play a lead  
role in this area working closely with trade bodies and 
industry representatives.
We have a major task in terms of communicating what  
this industry does in terms of social responsibility and the 
importance of sensible regulation for customers, business 
and Government. Our key priority in the UK is to limit the 
exposure of the business and industry to future tax 
increases and ensure that changes in the way the business 
is taxed remain commercially equitable. We are actively 
engaged with both the Government and the Opposition  
on the Levy debate as regards the current scheme and  
also in terms of a future commercial partnership to  
replace it. Outside of the UK differing cultural and social 
attitudes towards gambling, particularly within Europe is  
reflected in a lack of a uniform approach to regulation. 
Accordingly we will assess opportunities to expand 
internationally on a case by case basis. 
How do you plan to build upon 
Ladbrokes’ brand heritage? 
This will be a major focus for Stephen Vowles as Director of 
Customer Experience. The Ladbrokes brand leads the 
market in terms of unprompted awareness in the UK. This is 
a strength, but, in isolation, is not enough. In today’s highly 
competitive environment online brands have made a great 
deal of progress at our expense and we have not been fast 
enough to respond. By ending our siloed approach to 
products we are now able to develop a truly integrated 
approach to marketing and dramatically improve our 
communications and customer retention.
In 2011 we will start to evolve the positioning of the 
Ladbrokes brand based upon the continuing customers 
learnings driven by our OddsOn! loyalty programme. This 
unique insight into how, where and when our customers 
engage with us will enable the development of an industry 
leading approach to the personalisation of product. 
What has been achieved so far?
It has been a year of significant change. We have delivered a 
strong performance, particularly in the latter half of this year as 
well as preparing the foundations for the significant changes 
which are still to come. We are focused on what we are trying 
to achieve and have a clearly defined set of priorities that will 
enable us to achieve it. It will no doubt be challenging; we 
operate in an increasingly competitive marketplace. We have 
however clearly identified what needs to be done, have put in 
place the right structure to do it and will continue to work 
tirelessly in order to continue delivering against our objectives. 
What do you hope customers will 
be saying about Ladbrokes in  
two years’ time?
I want them to see a major difference. I want them to see us 
as having the most complete and consistent offer no matter 
how they choose to bet with us and I want them to be proud 
to recommend us to their friends. I want them to make 
Ladbrokes favourite.
Delivering 
technological 
excellence
The development or acquisition of 
technological strength lies at the heart of our 
strategy and provides the foundation on which 
the evolution of the business is built
