 Our financial results for 2013 masked 
real oper ational progress and we 
remain confident about the direction  
of the business.
2013 saw us continue to build a stronger 
and more competitive business. Our 
financial results reflected the disruption 
from these necessary changes and also 
some market-wide difficulties. They did not, 
however , reflect the real operational 
progress made. W e enter 2014 confident  
in our ability to deliver the final changes 
needed to establish a far more competitive 
offer that will be attractive to customers and 
drive shareholder benefits in H2 and beyond.
Retail excellence
High street betting continues to be an 
attractive proposition for customers and 
offers a resilient source of income despite a 
difficult trading and regulatory environment.
After achieving a record level of net 
revenue in 2012, Retail faced a more 
challenging year with cost and taxation 
headwinds exacerbated by slower than 
expected machines growth in an 
increasingly competitive market. 
The year finished strongly but this was not 
enough to mitigate the well-publicised 
negative impact of the extremely hot 
weather which seriously affected the whole 
market through unprecedented drops in 
footfall in July and August.
However , despite the challenging year for 
Retail, the high street remains an attractive 
proposition for our shops and we invested 
further in Retail to ensure it remains 
relevant and compelling for the customer . 
As well as the expansion of the estate with 
121 new shops, we delivered more content 
with Sky TV , Wifi and a new broadcast 
facility, Ladbrokes TV , for all our shops. We 
also introduced 1,400 Self Service Betting 
T erminals (SSBTs) to offer a greater product 
and betting range, particularly for football 
customers. We have also begun to roll out 
9,000 new machines across the shop estate 
ahead of the Football World Cup. The 
introduction of a more sophisticated cabinet 
is key to maintaining a leading machine 
offer in an increasingly competitive market. 
The focus for 2014 will be to maximise the 
benefits of these investments and further 
improve the competitive offer of the Retail 
estate. We have local management 
incentivised on local performance, looking 
to use the presence of Sky TV , free Wifi and 
SSBTs as a selling point in local marketing 
to maximise the impact.
The complexion of the UK high street has 
changed dramatically over recent years. 
Accordingly we accelerated the expansion 
of our estate, opening new shops in areas 
of higher footfall. Going forward, some 
rationalisation in the bookmaking market 
seems likely, because of rising operating 
costs and the likelihood of pressure on rents 
as the economy recovers. This is a process 
which we should benefit from. During 2014 
we will focus on the optimisation of our 
estate and improving the quality of earnings 
by reducing the tail of non-contributing 
shops with 40-50 shops likely to be closed.
Growing in Europe
Our increasing presence in European 
markets continues to offer benefits as it 
assists the Group in gaining access to growth 
markets and has the potential to mitigate the 
impact of any UK regulatory and economic 
change on our UK Retail business.
Ireland had a difficult year reflecting wider 
economic trends and the continuation of 
a highly competitive trading environment, 
particularly in the Republic. 
In Belgium, we saw a year of consolidation 
after record results in 2012. We have plans 
to introduce SSBT s, virtual products and 
a Digital service ahead of the 2014 Football 
World Cup. T ogether these should combine 
to establish Ladbrokes as the dominant 
multi-channel betting operator in the country . 
In Spain, we recorded another year of 
growth as the slow but steady regional 
regulation process continues to allow us to 
expend the retail activities of Sportium, our 
Joint Venture (JV) with Cirsa Group. We now 
operate in six regions and also agreed with 
Cirsa to extend the JV into digital channels 
which led to the launch of Sportium.es 
in December. 
Digital capability
The Digital market continues to evolve 
driven by technology and changing 
consumer behaviour , with Mobile offering 
the greatest growth opportunity. 
2013 was a significant and busy year 
for our Digital business. We entered a 
transformational agreement with Playtech 
and took significant steps to introduce a 
new and more competitive product offer . 
The change necessary to deliver all this 
activity was not without implications and 
performance in the Digital business 
was impacted.
The deal with Playtech is a critical step 
towards the creation of a compelling Digital 
offer and one befitting the Ladbrokes brand. 
The agreement came into force from 1 May 
and runs until the end of 2017. The first 
significant step was the creation of 
Ladbrokes Israel, which delivers a team 
highly experienced in digital marketing with 
a proven track record in market leading 
CRM and in developing efficient customer 
acquisition processes. We are pleased 
with the transition following what has been 
a major organisational change.
As part of the deal, Playtech are also 
providing a full suite of new gaming/casino 
product, and a new back office system, IMS. 
Product migration started during the year 
with the launch of the new ‘Vegas’ games 
casino as well as a new Poker product. 
In December we launched a new and more 
competitive Mobile offer on the proven 
Playtech Mobenga platform. Mobile is the 
fastest growing area of digital gambling and 
offers the greatest opportunity for the 
Ladbrokes brand. The initial customer 
reaction has been encouraging.
The Mobile launch was preceded by the new 
browser-based sportsbook launch in April. 
In November we launched the Ladbrokes 
Exchange to further differentiate our offer 
Chief Executive’s review
14 and meet the demand from the 
approximately 30% of our customers who 
use an exchange account regularly . This was 
only possible through integrating with the 
Betdaq betting exchange which we 
purchased in February 2013.
We also took further steps to broaden our 
international reach with further progress 
in China and in taking our Digital offer to 
Australia where we see considerable 
growth potential.
Our capability in Digital was further enhanced 
through the creation of a separate Digital 
team with dedicated expert management, 
all of whom have clear areas of expertise 
and accountability.
The focus for 2014 is simple; mobilise our 
business, deliver a single wallet and then 
deliver best in class CRM and growth in 
customer lifetime value.
The Digital offer , particularly Mobile, of 
Ladbrokes is pivotal to our competitiveness 
going forward and the business remains 
absolutely focused on delivering a product 
that attracts customers and delivers for 
shareholders. 
Brand strength offers firm foundations
Our brand is still one of the most recognised 
in the UK and the number one choice for 
people when looking at the betting and 
gaming sector . It has a natural resonance 
with the customer but has been poorly 
served by the product, particularly in Digital. 
2013 was a year when we have begun to 
address this weakness of product and we 
believe the steps taken in 2013 to reposition 
our offer can see the brand act as a catalyst 
to growth, particularly with the growth of 
multi-channel customers. 
Responsible Gambling
The end of 2013 and recent events have 
meant the industry has been firmly in the 
eye of a media and political storm and our 
share price performance has reflected the 
uncertainty. At the centre of this storm has 
been the issue of responsible gambling 
with the catalyst for the debate being the 
Government’s triennial review into stakes 
and prizes. Although this found no evidence 
to change current stake and prize limits, 
the industry was effectively ‘put on review’ 
pending further research over concerns 
the role machines play in causing problem 
gambling. 
Our view is very simple, responsible 
gambling is not a passing regulatory issue 
but a fact of life for all operators. The 
long-term sustainability of any business in 
the sector is intrinsically linked to this issue. 
We rolled out the industry code for harm 
minimisation across our retail estate and 
will fully support further industry-wide 
initiatives on this important topic.
In addition, we are taking actions to reinforce 
responsible gambling’s position at the heart 
of the business. There will be a Board 
committee dedicated to the topic and from 
2015, we will formalise responsible gambling 
measures into Executive remuneration. 
We also have considerable data from our 
Odds On loyalty card and believe this has 
a significant role to play in managing 
responsible gambling. We will look to trial 
new initiatives and use our insights to learn 
more about at risk behaviour and how to 
target information at individual players. 
We will continue to share these learnings 
across the industry .
The wider debate on machines has grown 
to include much comment on the perceived 
increase of betting shops on the UK high 
street. While betting shops generally are 
half the number they were in the 1970s it 
is true that high streets have become more 
accessible and affordable for bookmakers. 
We have always worked closely with local 
authorities and local communities. We have 
always said we understand their need to 
have some say over how their high streets 
feel. The feedback we get is that in the vast 
majority of cases our shops benefit the high 
streets they serve.
Our view is the current level of competition 
in certain locations is unsustainable, rising 
operating costs including taxation and 
content costs and the prospect of rising 
rents will drive some operators out of 
certain locations. While this offers local 
market share growth opportunities we will 
not be afraid to walk away from certain 
shops if we do not see a long-term 
sustainable income. 
2013 also saw a high level of industry 
engagement on the Gambling Act 
regulations which will see a 15% place of 
consumption tax introduced on all online 
sportsbook transactions undertaken by 
UK residents with a likely start date of 
December this year . 
How the tax impacts the wider market is as 
yet unclear . A poorly enforced tax will create 
an uncompetitive environment for 
established UK operators while strict 
enforcement through IP blocking or action 
on payment processing would create 
opportunity for more established players. 
We will continue to make this case at the 
highest level.
Outlook
2014 is a pivotal year for Ladbrokes. 
We will see our competitive offer continue 
to evolve and improve. Key to this will 
be mobilising our business and delivering 
a single customer wallet and improved 
CRM capability.
We remain confident in the business and the 
progress we are making to deliver a more 
competitive and sustainable business in a 
rapidly evolving market. We are very mindful 
of the journey our shareholders have been 
on. We remain highly cash generative and 
have a strong balance sheet with which 
we underwrite a healthy dividend.
We are well placed to maximise on the 
opportunities available to us as we align 
more competitive products with proven 
technology and greater capability behind 
our significant brand presence. We can see 
early, but encouraging, signs of customer 
confidence in the new products, and are 
focused on turning that into benefits 
for our shareholders.
Richard Glynn
Chief Executive Officer
  The long-term 
sustainability of any 
business in the 
sector is intrinsically 
linked to this issue.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 15
