 Chairman’s statement
Ladbr okes continues on its journey to 
modernise the business. While we are 
disappointed that the financial results do 
not r eflect the pr ogress we are making, 
the str ategy is the right one.
Board focus
As you would expect the Board has had much 
to consider in the year . We took time to ensure 
that the major deals such as with Playtech, 
the purchase of Betdaq and the entry into the 
Australian market were executed as effectively 
and efficiently as possible. We also took time 
to consider the future of the international 
business as overseas markets open up or 
deregulate. Closer to home we reviewed 
the current regulatory agenda and what 
opportunities and threats are posed to the 
business. The betting and gaming sector 
is constantly changing, technology is driving 
change and politicians are having to react. 
We do not seek special treatment at the hands 
of the regulators but we do want a fair race. 
We are clear that the actions we take today 
in your interests must also be ones which we 
can sustain over a longer time period. We have 
challenged the business to look at key areas 
such as responsible gambling and community 
involvement to see if there is more we should 
be doing. It is pleasing to report that the 
business is responding. From the Boardroom 
to the shop floor we aim to put responsible 
gambling at the heart of the business. It is the 
right thing to do on every level not least because 
as an industry leader we must not be afraid 
to lead by example. That’s why we are giving 
it even greater prominence as a Board and 
introducing it into executive remuneration 
in 2015. Bookmakers have to be a part of the 
fabric of the community , the future sustainability 
of the business is in providing people with 
a safe and responsible environment in which 
to follow a leisure pursuit. 
Right team
On the Board, John Jarvis announced his 
intention to stand down as a non-executive 
director . We would like to thank John for his 
hard work and thoughtful contributions. In 
seeking to replace John we wanted someone 
with experience of UK and international 
business to assist our thinking as we seek to 
grow our footprint internationally. David Martin 
who joined in October has such experience 
and complements the skills we have across 
the Boardroom table, with digital, retail, betting, 
gaming, international operations and brand 
management all healthily represented.
Dear Shareholder
2013 has been a difficult year where our 
business has taken significant strides in key 
areas but failed to deliver the financial results 
that we expected.
From this viewpoint it has been disappointing 
and one where we accept that shareholders’ 
patience has been tested. The numbers for 
the year are stark, operating profit
(1)
 down 
32.9% to £138.3 million and earnings per 
share
(1)
 down 36.4% to 11.7 pence.
However as a Board, we have had to look 
beyond the bare numbers and distinguish 
between those that reflect the vagaries of 
bookmaking and those that are a consequence 
of the journey this business is still on. We must 
not lose sight of the task set by the Board, to 
create a more competitive and sustainable 
business in a rapidly evolving market. Naturally 
we have to accept that against such a backdrop, 
difficult but necessary big decisions create 
short-term pain for longer term benefits. 
Evolving markets
We are under no illusion about the situation 
we are in. Our markets continue to evolve, 
mobile technology continues to drive 
consumer behaviour and the strength of the 
Digital offer continues to become ever more 
important. That is why it is in Digital that we 
see the most opportunity for shareholders. 
It is why the deal with Playtech to bring their 
product, expertise and customer relationship 
management to our Digital business is so 
important. In partnering with a proven market 
leading expert, we are clear that long-term 
shareholder value is being created. However , 
the deal was not without implications, most 
notably in the short-term performance of our 
Digital business as the painful, but necessary, 
steps were taken to ensure the new operations 
could be established and duplication removed. 
In hindsight, perhaps there was too much 
optimism in how fast and how much could 
be achieved but we passionately believe 
the deal with Playtech is a game changer 
for Ladbrokes and shareholders.
There remains much to do but in committing 
to keep the dividend to at least 8.9 pence per 
share for 2014, we are giving you a 
demonstrable sign that we are confident in the 
Company’s ability to deliver over the next year .
As you would expect, there are no bonuses 
or pay rises for our management team 
associated with this year’s financial 
performance.  However , under the long-term 
incentives there are some payments. One of 
our key tasks is to ensure we have the right 
team and the right incentives in place for 
the business. Three years ago we revamped 
the incentive scheme for our most senior 
managers to reflect a business which required 
a turnaround strategy to be delivered, whilst 
operating in a highly competitive market. 
The aim was to incentivise managers to deliver 
the turnaround and create shareholder value. 
We chose to measure it in the most tangible 
way , through share price performance. 
The payment under the Ladbrokes Growth 
Plan is because the share price did meet 
the criteria of passing the £2 mark for over 
30 consecutive days (see the ‘Directors’ 
remuneration report’). At the year end the 
share price had not sustained this growth and 
was not where we would like it to be. But we 
have made progress against the original task, 
to build a stronger more competitive and 
sustainable business fit to compete in a rapidly 
changing environment, and that in some of the 
actions still being implemented, there are 
further benefits to come. 
Outlook for 2014
Looking ahead the Board is clear that 2014 
presents both challenge and opportunity. 
Our Digital team has to deliver some key 
infrastructure milestones to be able to deliver 
fully the benefits of the Playtech deal. 
Retail has a challenge to drive the benefits 
from the recent investments in the estate to 
keep its offer not only relevant but attractive 
to customers. There are plans to address all 
of these and for us the second half of the year 
after the Football World Cup will be key. The 
Board has confidence in the direction of the 
business but is conscious of the need for 
shareholders to see the sustainable benefits 
of the changes being made.
Peter Erskine
Chairman
(1)
  Profit before tax, net finance expense, exceptional items and excluding High Rollers.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 1 Simpler navigation 
to help customer s 
get to the heart of 
the action.
Push 
capability
R elevant and timel y offer s  
sent dir ect to the customer to 
k eep them up-to-speed with 
wher e the best value in  
the mark et is.
#1
The new Mobile offer 
r eached number one 
in the sports c ategory in 
the Apple App stor e.
2
Strategic report History of our launch
W e launched our new 
mobile offer on the 
pr oven Mobenga 
platform in December 
to an encour aging 
customer r esponse.
Our new Mobile offer  
is available on iPhone 
and Andr oid, and m.Site 
makes us accessible 
thr ough all other  
mobile devices.
Unsurprisingly , the 
busiest time for 
downloading of the App 
is just befor e kick -off of 
any big games or on a 
Satur day ar ound midday .
Easy to use bet  
slip – allowing 
customer s to get their 
bet on quickl y and with 
minimum fuss.
Mobile
Mobile gambling is the fastest 
gr owing ar ea of digital gambling 
in the UK, accounting for 4%  
in 2008 and gr owing  
to 21% in 2013.
Live 
streaming
So customer s c an get
the buzz of seeing how  
their bet is pr ogr essing.
3
