 IN H2 2013 WE COMMITTED TO 
UNDERTAKE AND COMPLETE A MAJOR 
OPERATIONAL RESTRUCTURING IN 
TIME FOR THE 2014 WORLD CUP 
IN ORDER TO ENSURE LADBROKES 
WAS COMPETITIVE AND COULD 
RETURN TO GROWTH IN H2 2014. 
Although operating profit
(1)
 was down on 2013 with weak,  
industry-wide football results in January and December a key factor , 
our results for 201 4 are beginning to show the financial benefits of 
this  restructuring. Despite an exceptionally high loss of £8. 1 m on 
Boxing Day football we achieved our target of delivering headline 
operating profit
(1)
 growth
 
in H2, with H2 operating profit
(1)
 up 30.4%, 
a  considerable improvement on H1 201 4 which was down 33.7% 
year  on year . We are confident that Ladbrokes is competitive with clear 
plans to improve further our business and positioned to deliver a  good 
result in 201 5.
DELIVERING ON OUR DIGITAL POTENTIAL
201 4 was a pivotal year for our Digital business during which we 
completed the key operational steps envisaged in the Playtech 
agreement of May 201 3. In December 201 3, we launched Mobile 
sports betting onto the Mobenga platform and completed the launch  
of Playtech Casino products followed by the transfer of all our Digital 
products on the Playtech IMS system by the end of April 201 4. The 
integration of our products, prices and data into IMS allowed our 
marketing and data teams in Ladbrokes Israel to begin in H2 201 4 to 
market effectively to our Digital customers. More importantly , it gives 
our customers the benefits associated with single wallet capability 
across all our Digital products.
In addition, we maintained our drive to offer the best betting and 
gaming experience on mobile devices, the key market battleground. 
Our partnership with the Chelsea Apps Factory has produced a 
highly  competitive offering throughout 201 4, delivering a wide 
range  of  application upgrades, tournament modules and unique 
functions. Customers responded positively to our improved offer 
with  c.  80- 1 60% growth in Mobile Sportsbook staking in every month 
of 201 4 and 1 10% for the year . Overall Sportsbook trends were also 
strong with staking increasing by 32% for the year . We had a good 
World Cup with Sportsbook staking increasing by 30% on a 
comparable market basis. Building on the success of our Mobile 
product in 201 4, we launched new tablet based products in 
December and in H2 201 5 we intend to launch an improved desktop 
product also on Mobenga. As a result Ladbrokes will offer customers 
a competitive and innovative sports-betting product on a stable and 
standardised platform across all digital channels.
The marketing intelligence provided by Ladbrokes Israel is key to 
maximising the return we get from our marketing expenditure. In the 
second half of 201 4 following expiry of our previous on-line casino 
supplier arrangements and the launch of IMS, Ladbrokes Israel 
was  able to apply its full marketing expertise to Casino. In Q3 we 
returned the Gaming business to growth, the first time for six quarters. 
In Q4, trends improved further with our cross-selling rates growing by 
around 30% during 201 4 and casino actives growing by 57%.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
16 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report Overall in 201 4, despite weaker margins driven by industry-wide 
customer friendly results, Digital net revenue increased by 22.9% 
to  £21 5. 1 m and operating profit (before exceptional items) by 
70.7%  to  £1 4.0m with strong performances in Mobile Sportsbook, 
our  Australian operation and the  return to growth in Gaming the 
key drivers.
The good growth in customer numbers and Sportsbook stakes 
already delivered in 201 4 and the return to Gaming growth should 
translate into continued Digital revenue growth during 201 5.
A SUSTAINABLE UK RETAIL BUSINESS
In 201 4 we demonstrated, once again, that retail betting continues 
to  be an attractive entertainment proposition for customers and a 
major source of cash flow to support dividends and investment 
across  the Group.
In UK Retail, we enhanced our product offering and made progress 
in growing our football business. This is central to delivering better 
margins in the medium-term as well as off-setting the decline in 
traditional over the counter horse race and greyhound betting which 
is  less relevant to younger customers.
We deployed more SSBT s across the  estate bringing the total to 1 , 730. 
SSBT s are popular with football customers allowing them to build 
customised coupons and bet across a range of other sports and 
events. Around 80% of SSBT staking is on football, supporting 
this  important area of growth. SSBT staking grew throughout 201 4 
with  weekly staking levels at the end of the year above the peaks we 
saw during the World Cup. We also improved our coupon offer for 
traditional football customers and increased in-store and in-window 
visibility of the latest football offers, pricing and results. As a result, 
combined with a strong World Cup, OTC football staking increased 
by  29.4 % and gross win by 9.5%. Building on the strong customer 
response, we will deploy more than 2,000 additional SSBT s  in 201 5 
across the estate with at least one SSBT per shop.
In H1 we rolled out over 9,000 new Clarity gaming machines in time 
for  the World Cup. Clarity gives our customers an enhanced gaming 
experience in both roulette (B2) and the faster growing £2 stake slots 
(B3). In parallel with this roll-out, we introduced the changes required 
to  comply with the ABB Code and our internal responsible gambling 
standards. Customers have responded well to the new machines and 
revenues grew by 6.4 % in H2, ahead of our expectations. In Q2 201 5, 
new regulations on £50+ staking are being introduced. We are already 
preparing our shop teams to meet the new requirements whilst 
continuing to deliver a good customer experience.
The UK Retail team also kept cost increases to a level well below our 
initial cost guidance for 201 4 and generated free cash flow before 
exceptional items of £1 38.0m during the year .
Retail net revenue increased by 0.7% to £81 1 .5m whilst operating 
profit  before exceptional items declined by 10.9% to £1 1 9.3m. 
A  strong  performance in the World Cup and growth from improved 
machines performances was offset primarily by the impact of 
well  reported customer friendly football results in January and in 
December , and continued weaker staking trends, particularly for 
racing, across the year .
We stated in April that regulatory changes and our continued drive 
to  optimise the estate would inevitably lead to shop closures and 
we  closed 89 loss or near loss making shops this year . I am 
pleased  to  say that we achieved these closures without making 
compulsory redundancies, although this is becoming increasingly 
difficult to achieve.
The increase in Machine Games Duty from 1 March 201 5 and the 
anticipated impact of the new UK regulations in 201 5 means that 
further shop closures will be inevitable. We continue to optimise the 
performance of our estate and expect to close a further 60 shops 
during 201 5. We will again try to limit the impact of these closures 
on  our shop teams.
In 201 5, we will continue our focus on improving retail performance 
and on targeted growth, driven in particular by football staking, wider 
deployment of SSBT s and our 201 4 investment in the Clarity machine 
estate. We also remain focused on cost efficiency across the division.
DIVERSIFYING OUR PROFITS INTO EUROPE AND AUSTRALIA
We continued to expand and grow our international operations in 
regulated jurisdictions in a capital efficient manner . In 201 4, across 
the  whole Group, net revenue derived from non UK customers has 
increased to c. 1 4 % up 1 percentage point on 201 3.
We firmly established our exciting digital challenger brand in Australia 
and further developed our European Retail businesses in 201 4.
After acquiring Bookmaker Pty Ltd in 201 3, we acquired Betstar Pty 
Ltd for £1 2. 1 m (AUD 21 .4m) in April. Betstar was integrated in only 
six  weeks and we have delivered our cost synergy targets on plan. 
On  a pro forma basis, including the relevant results of both businesses 
in each period, 201 4 staking increased by 25%, actives by 88% and 
net revenue by 1 5 1 %. Our Australian business is well positioned for 
continued growth in 201 5.
+110%
GROWTH IN MOBILE SPORTSBOOK
+29.4%
INCREASE IN OTC FOOTBALL STAKING
17 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 In Belgium we made further investment in our retail estate and 
established a Ladbrokes branded digital presence. In Belgium retail, 
where we remain the market leader , we introduced virtual products 
and SSBT s. Belgian customers have responded well to these new 
products and retail net revenue increased by 10.3% and operating 
profit (before exceptional items) by 21 .4 % in 201 4 on a constant 
currency basis.
Our Spanish joint venture, Sportium, expanded into Catalunya, 
Castilla  La Mancha, Rioja and Extremadura. Spanish retail gross win 
grew by 54 %
(2)
. We also pushed ahead with Sportium.es, our digital 
sportsbetting joint venture with Cirsa, launched in December 201 3. 
Overall, the Spanish business, united under one brand, is growing 
steadily , with a target of reaching break-even profit point during 201 5 
and becoming profitable thereafter .
In 201 5, we expect to benefit further from growth in Australia and 
from  even further geographical expansion in Spain. In Belgium we will 
continue to generate benefits from our investment in new products 
and SSBT s.
In Ireland, trading in Northern Ireland which was profitable, showed 
similar top-line trends and cost performance to UK Retail. However , 
our business in the Republic of Ireland was loss-making and did 
not  deliver on its plan. Overall revenue in Ireland declined as a 
consequence by 10.9% and operating profit by 56.9%. We have 
tasked our International team to undertake a fundamental review 
of  our Republic of Ireland business during Q1 201 5 to establish 
options  to take this business forward.
2014 WORLD CUP – A COMPETITIVE LADBROKES
We set ourselves the objective of being truly competitive in time for 
the  201 4 World Cup across all channels, with enhanced products, 
stronger marketing capability , targeted campaigns, all supported 
by  a  newly launched marketing campaign ‘The Ladbrokes Life’ . 
Our  customers responded well. In particular our enhanced Mobile 
offer saw the strongest response in what became labelled the 
‘Mobile  World Cup’ .
Mobile actives increased by nearly 700% over the 2010 tournament 
and mobile staking by over 1 , 100%, albeit from a small base, resulting 
in overall growth in Digital sports staking of over 40% and actives 
increasing by 28% on a comparable market basis. 
In UK Retail, we outperformed the market with staking up 7 .9% 
and  recorded significant increase in slippage as customers took 
advantage of a wider range of multiples and coupon offers.
In Spain and Belgium we generated over 100% increases in staking 
and good online activity .
Overall margins were strong at 24.3%
(3)
 and we generated an overall 
gross win of £28m
(3)
 for the tournament well ahead of 2010. 
The 201 4 World Cup showed what we can achieve by offering 
customers attractive opportunities to bet alongside competitive 
products across all channels supported by effective and efficient 
marketing of the Ladbrokes brand. It provided the best evidence that 
Ladbrokes was back on track.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY , TAXATION AND SELF-REGULATION
The Betting Industry has been subject to a number of publicly 
announced taxation and regulatory changes – many of which will 
impact during 201 5. These include taxation of remote revenues, 
extension of UK licensing and regulation to remote operations, 
changes to regulations around gaming machine staking above 
£50  and a review of the voluntary codes relating to gambling 
advertising. While the industry entered 201 5 with many of the 
substantive issues surrounding it having been addressed, significant 
challenges remain in terms of public and stakeholder perception. 
Ladbrokes has over the last couple of years played a lead role in 
driving  social responsibility across the industry . We demonstrated 
our  commitment to social responsibility by establishing a committee 
of  the PLC board to set targets in social responsibility and to link 
these  targets to executive remuneration. Key to this has been the 
appointment of a Head of Responsible Gambling who has reviewed 
our approach and policies on responsible gambling and will ensure 
these are applied across all our channels and evolved over time. 
Ladbrokes played a leading role in establishing the first gambling 
industry responsible gambling standards body – The Senet Group – 
with other leading betting operators. The Group, which has already 
developed the first multi-operator responsible gambling advertising 
campaign, will continue to evolve in the years to come and is an 
important commitment by the industry to submit to independent 
oversight of its approach to responsible gambling. Other sectors 
of  the  wider industry must now endorse similar approaches.
Informing both Ladbrokes and the industry’s approach has been the 
extensive research carried out by The Responsible Gambling T rust. 
This ground breaking work has identified that incremental, targeted 
interventions are key to helping individuals exhibiting problematic 
behaviour to help themselves. Customer data provided by our unique 
‘Odds On’ card has enabled Ladbrokes to develop an algorithm to 
identify players exhibiting ‘at risk’ behaviour . We are currently testing 
the  algorithm in one region and we plan to roll it out more widely 
before  the end of the year . 
+37%
GROWTH IN DIGITAL SPORTSBETTING  
DURING THE WORLD CUP
+25%
AUSTRALIA STAKING INCREASE 
IN 2014
18 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED Q4 RESUL TS
Operating profit
(1)
 for the Group in Q4 at £35.6m was flat on Q4 201 3 
(£35.6m), driven largely by the poor football results on Boxing Day . 
Across all of our platforms we recorded a loss on Boxing Day of 
c.£8. 1 m, Ladbrokes’ worst ever football daily loss on record. 
Notwithstanding this loss, Ladbrokes showed signs of further 
improved operational strength, notably in machines, Mobile 
Sportsbook, Digital Gaming and Australia, providing evidence that 
operational investment of the past 1 8 months is now delivering 
financial returns. 
In UK Retail, Q4 OTC amounts staked were down 6.8% with gross 
win  margins at 1 5.6% down by 1 .5 percentage points on Q4 201 3 
driven by customer friendly football and horse results. Football 
staking  improved by 1 . 1 % as we benefitted from our focus on coupon 
products and our investment in SSBT s where staking per terminal 
increased. Staking on traditional products declined by c.8.5% 
improving on the trends seen in Q3 benefitting from new products 
introduced during Q4.
Machine revenue increased by 7 .0%, gross win per shop per week 
was up 9.8% and on a per terminal per week basis was £996. 
Overall  net revenue declined by 2.4 %.
Digital net revenue increased by 20.1%. In Ladbrokes.com, we 
saw  another strong quarter of growth with Sportsbook actives 
up  1 4 %, staking up 30% and Mobile staking up again over 1 1 4 %, 
the  highest rate of growth in 201 4. Weaker results at the end on the 
quarter however meant that the Ladbrokes.com Sportsbook 
margin  was down 1 .7 percentage points to 6.5% and, although 
staking and customer metrics were strong, Sportsbook net 
revenue  declined by 7 .0%.
Ladbrokes.com Gaming net revenue grew by 9.3% reflecting strong 
increases in actives with Games up 31 % and Casino up 57% and 
the  impact on revenues of losses to some higher value customers 
in Casino.
Australia performed well and, with normalised results across 
the  Spring Carnival, delivered a Q4 gross win margin of 9.6% 
(Q4  201 3:  5.2%). Net revenue increased by 239% with strong 
growth  in  actives and staking increased by 32.8% strongly 
benefitting  from the Betstar acquisition.
In Belgium, staking increased in Q4 by 35.9%
(2)
 but, with margins 
impacted significantly by poor European football results net revenue 
only increased by 8.4 %
(2)
. In Ireland, trends in the Republic remain poor 
and with Boxing Day impacting margins, overall Irish revenue declined 
by 18.4 %
(2)
.
OUTLOOK AND CURRENT TRADING 
For the period 1 January to 24 February 201 5, net revenue for the 
Group (excluding High Rollers) increased by 1.5% despite the impact 
of losses to a small number of larger customers in the period and the 
adverse industry-wide football results in weeks 3 and 8.
In UK Retail we have seen similar OTC staking trends to Q4 and 
continued strong machine revenue growth. OTC gross win  margins 
were slightly ahead of last year and, overall, net revenue in UK Retail is 
ahead. In Digital, Ladbrokes.com Sportsbook and Gaming customer 
KPIs remain good and Australia is generating strong growth both 
organic and from Betstar . T rading elsewhere is in line with our 
expectations.
In H2 2014, our financial results are now showing benefits from the 
major operational restructuring undertaken over the past 1 8 months. 
In 201 5, Ladbrokes faces significant headwinds from the increases 
in  Machine Games Duty in March and the Point of Consumption T ax. 
However , we have clear plans to improve further our business. Barring 
the imposition of material unforeseen adverse regulation and/or 
taxation and assuming normalised sporting results, we are confident 
in our plans for 201 5 and in generating continued underlying growth.
DIVIDEND
As the Group implemented its operational turnaround, the Board 
committed to pay dividends of 8.9p per share for 201 3 and 201 4, 
outside our historic dividend policy which is based on earnings cover 
whilst remaining within our target leverage policy of net debt being in 
the range of 1 .5/2.0 times EBITDA (before exceptional items).
The Board currently intends to continue to pay a dividend of 8.9p per 
share for the 201 5 financial year .
Richard Glynn 
Chief Executive Officer
8.9p
DIVIDEND
(1) Excludes exceptional items and High Rollers.
(2) Constant currency basis.
(3) Including Sportium Joint Venture on a 50% basis.
19 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Building on operational improvements 
through the year and utilising the 
expertise in our Ladbrokes Israel 
team we have begun to see the 
customer respond positively to 
the new Digital offer at Ladbrokes.
COMPETITIVE
IN DIGITAL
ON TRACK...
 6 3%
The percentage of our Digital Sportsbook 
business in Q4 conducted via mobile 
devices. Which is why we continually 
undertook major upgrades and 
enhanced  the customer experience with 
improvements such as more  ways to pay , 
simpler ways to bet, better  visualisation and 
dedicated sports centres around events.
20 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report 21 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
