 2014 WAS A YEAR IN WHICH THE 
STRENGTH OF THE LADBROKES 
BRAND BEGAN TO BE FULLY 
MATCHED BY A COMPETITIVE OFFER. 
WE ENTERED THE YEAR BELIEVING 
THAT THE FIRST HALF WOULD ALL 
BE ABOUT OPERATIONAL DELIVERY 
AND THE SECOND HALF WOULD 
BE ABOUT GROWTH. 
OUTLINE
Our belief in the shape of the year was correct. We ended the year with 
all our operational targets met and with the evidence emerging that our 
structural improvements are driving improved customer metrics and 
financial performance. We enter 201 5 confident but not complacent.
WORLD CUP CHALLENGE
The World Cup was the acid test for the business after four years of 
substantive rebuilding and the Ladbrokes team rose to the challenge. 
In what was a fiercely competitive market we competed hard and 
across all the key metrics we regarded as important, the business 
delivered. Overall staking was up 22.4 % with the key area of Digital 
seeing net revenue up 25.9%. It was the mobile World Cup as 
customers chose their mobiles to be the portal of choice and our offer 
more than met their expectations. Mobile staking growth was up over 
1 , 100% and accounted for 63% of all Sportsbook staking. Retail, while 
impacted by the switch to mobile, still delivered with staking up 7 .9%.
While the tournament did not start with the bang we hoped, with 
results initially weak, we held our nerve, we backed our judgement 
on  the teams to take on and the teams to avoid and we traded hard. 
This resulted in a gross win margin of 24.3% and an overall gross 
win  of  £28.0m for the tournament.
CORE BUSINESS ON TRACK
Aside from the World Cup the litmus test for our competitiveness 
has  been the performance of our Digital business. We entered 201 4 
with a  new management team and the Playtech partnership still 
being  implemented as we exited previous contractual commitments. 
We  recognised that the pace of progress caused frustration in the 
short-term but we remained confident that these were obstacles not 
barriers to our long-term opportunities and progress.
Our Sportsbook offer and the performance of Mobile are encouraging 
signs that where we have the product and platform in place the brand 
can deliver . The early signs are that Gaming is beginning to reap the 
benefits of the changes we have put in place. We enter 201 5 with the 
foundations in place to allow the business to deliver the full potential 
of  the Playtech deal.
The retail environment continues to remain challenging but our Retail 
offer continues to be an engine for the wider Ladbrokes business. 
However , we cannot afford to stand still as our market continues to 
evolve. We continued to invest in the offer to keep it relevant for the 
modern customer and in the year we introduced Self Service Betting 
T erminals (SSBT s), a wider and more attractive football offer and more 
modern gaming machines, all to meet growing customer expectation 
on service and experience.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
04 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report We are not blind to the challenges retail faces in a rapidly changing 
consumer world. Customers have more choice on how they want to 
consume, more expectations on convenience and greater awareness 
of value. Y et like all retailers, we know that if we can be the customer’s 
number one choice on the High Street and online, we will get a higher 
return on that customer . That is why we believe we have to keep 
investing in our Retail and Digital offer in unison and win the multi- 
channel customer over to Ladbrokes.
A key part of the future of Ladbrokes is the need to build income 
streams outside of the UK. As we have seen over the year , the 
regulatory and political uncertainty of the UK can hinder a fair 
reflection of the value of the business.
That is why it is pleasing to report on the positive steps taken by 
our  international business this year . In Spain and Belgium we have 
established an online presence to complement our retail offer . In 
Australia we entered the market with a small acquisition at the end 
of  201 3 and have doubled its size through acquisition and organic 
growth. Opportunities overseas can take a long time to come to 
fruition and are often hard fought but we remain alive to the power 
of  our brand to either translate to new countries or to be a credible 
force in  establishing a new brand. Our positions in China and 
USA  evidence this belief and while currently small, offer potential 
long-term opportunities.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Responsible gambling has always been at the heart of the business, 
but the greater scrutiny we now have as an industry has led us to 
dig  deeper into the organisation to ensure we can not only say it with 
complete confidence but evidence it.
We have established a Board Social Responsibility Committee chaired 
by Senior Independent Director , John Kelly , and  issues such as our 
new Responsible Gambling Policy , our commitment to advertise the 
benefits of taking a responsible approach to gambling and the link 
between executive remuneration and responsible gambling targets 
have all been considered. The foundation of the Senet Group to drive 
greater responsible gambling messaging across the industry has 
been welcomed widely and we are  proud to be a founder member .
However , some in the industry have been slow to react to this agenda 
and are blind to the threat posed by public discontent at their actions. 
We are not here to give moral lectures to industry partners but there 
remains a threat at all levels that the actions of the slowest will hurt us 
all. That is why I am proud that we continue to take  a  stance as an 
industry leader and live the measures throughout the business.
BOARD FOCUS
Following the travails of 201 3 much of the Board focus has been on 
ensuring the key operational targets for 201 4 outlined by the executive 
team have been delivered. We were confident in the ability of the 
business to deliver and that underwrote our commitment to at least 
maintaining the dividend for the year .
However , we have not just focused on the here and now, we realise 
that shareholder value is created over the longer term and we 
challenged the executive and senior team to look ahead. In the year 
we  looked at the rise of the multi-channel customer and what that 
meant for both our Digital and Retail businesses and our reliance on 
the UK market. We examined the international opportunities and our 
ability to exploit them. We looked at our core strengths and the power 
of our trading and liability management teams and technology to drive 
new business opportunities and efficiencies.
Perhaps the biggest decision we faced this year was over the 
leadership of the business. Richard Glynn joined us as Chief Executive 
in 2010 with a clear remit to engineer a turnaround in the business and 
make us competitive once again. I think in hindsight, none of us 
realised just how big a task this was. Richard worked tirelessly in his 
quest to deliver a stronger Ladbrokes. The journey has not always 
been smooth and shareholder patience has been tested, but as a 
Board we strongly believe that we are fundamentally more resilient 
and  competitive than we were and that the foundations have been 
laid  to build a stronger more successful Ladbrokes.
That naturally led us to consider the composition of the team going 
forward and in discussing it with Richard, we came to the mutual 
conclusion that it was time to let someone new take over the reins. 
Richard leaves with the Board’s gratitude and my personal thanks for 
the determination, commitment and passion he brought to the role. 
No one has fought harder for Ladbrokes than Richard in the last five 
years and I wish him all the success in the future.
LOOKING AHEAD
Building on the foundations laid over the last few years is the key task 
facing the new Ladbrokes management team. As part of that task, we 
have also looked at the right incentives to have in place. The Ladbrokes 
Growth Plan was specifically aimed at incentivising a turnaround and 
ends this summer . We have consulted on a replacement which looks 
at having the right incentives in place to meet modern best practice but 
also to act as a catalyst for management out performance. We believe 
we have achieved this and look forward to reporting on it successfully 
rewarding management for shareholder performance in the future.
As the Group implemented its operational turnaround, the Board 
committed to pay dividends of 8.9p per share for 201 3 and 201 4, 
outside our historic dividend policy which is based on earnings cover 
whilst remaining within our target leverage policy of net debt being in 
the range of 1 .5/2.0 times EBITDA (before exceptional items).
The Board currently intends to continue to pay a dividend of 8.9p per 
share for the 201 5 financial year .
We enter 201 5 conscious that it will be another challenging year , 
earnings are forecast to be down reflecting regulatory and tax 
headwinds and we will have to run very hard just to stand still with 
circa  £50m of extra tax to be borne. All this on top of the regulatory 
uncertainty the General Election will cause.
However , the progress made in the business in 201 4 has been through 
a focus on the matters that are within our control and this will continue 
to be the mantra for the year ahead. The business is beginning to see 
the benefits of its strategy in key customer metrics which lead to 
financial performance. The trends are encouraging but we are not 
getting carried away .
Peter Erskine 
Chairman
05 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
