 Chief Executive’s review
Exceptional costs charged during the year were at a greatly
reduced level compared with 2002, amounting to £5.9 million.
The costs were incurred largely as a result of the rationalisation 
of the European operations of Laird Technologies, now being
repositioned to our new facility in the Czech Republic. We are also
closing and transferring some of the UK production capacity of
Laird Security Systems to its expanded operations in China.
Earnings per share in 2003 before exceptional items and goodwill
amortisation were 21.6 pence, 37% up on 2002 earnings of
15.8 pence and 25% up on the 17.3 pence from continuing
operations.
Strong Cash Generation
Laird has maintained a sound financial structure and a strong 
cash generative ability. Net borrowings at the year end were
£60.1 million, representing 30% of shareholders’ funds, down from
£66.6 million at the end of 2002. Interest cover for the year was
10.4 times before exceptional costs and goodwill amortisation, up
from 7.0 times in 2002. Both interest costs and our reported level
of borrowings benefited from the translation of US$ into Sterling.
Cash generation was again strong, with a trading cash inflow for
the year of £38.2 million before the net effect of acquisitions,
disposals and dividend payments, compared with an inflow of
£30.2 million in 2002. Conversion of operating profits into cash
was again over 100%.
The maintenance of a strong financial structure is a key factor in
our strategy. £140 million of new bilateral banking facilities have
been put in place during the year, for a five year term to 2008.
These new facilities, together with the Group’s £37.2 million of US
Dollar Private Placement facilities running at various dates through
2014, give Laird the financial resources to make further value
enhancing investments and acquisitions.
Strength and Leadership through Acquisition
The year was another active one in terms of bolt-on acquisitions
with a spend during the year of £21.4 million, as we pursued a two
pronged strategy of expanding our core businesses and extending
our capabilities into new, related markets. In Laird Technologies we
expanded geographically our electromagnetic interference (“EMI”)
shielding business and embarked on the first stages of our planned
extension of Laird Technologies’ capabilities into the related market
sector of thermal management products and solutions.
In September, we acquired the business of Magnes Corporation 
in Korea, whilst at the same time establishing a branch of Laird
Technologies there, thus allowing us to offer the full range of our
products directly into this important market and positioning us 
to serve the major Korean electronics companies globally. 
Delivering Profitable Growth through Market Leadership
We have delivered another year of profitable growth through
leadership in specialist market sectors, underpinned by our global
reach. We have continued to strengthen the strategic positioning
of our businesses during the year and have improved further our
operating and financial performance. In spite of weak economic
and market conditions in the early part of the year and the adverse
translation effects of exchange rate movements, the actions we
have taken have enabled us to deliver another set of strong results.
Turnover in 2003 was £429 million, up from the £424 million
reported from continuing operations in 2002. At constant exchange
rates turnover was up 8%. This increase reflects both our organic
growth, largely as a result of market share gains, and the benefits
arising from bolt-on acquisitions in our technology and security
systems businesses.
By continuing to lower our cost base and by improving margins
during the year, and despite the adverse translation effects of
exchange rate movements, operating profits before exceptional
items were higher in each of our divisions. We saw profit growth of
17% at Laird Technologies, 10% at Laird Security Systems and
43% at Laird Plastics. The elimination of loss-making businesses,
disposed of in 2002, also benefited Group profits in 2003.
Group profits for 2003, before exceptional items, goodwill
amortisation and tax, were £37.4 million, 27% up on the
£29.4 million reported in 2002, and 18% up on the £31.8 million
from continuing operations. At constant exchange rates the
increases would have been 37% and 27% respectively.
04 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC A sound financial structure is also central to our strategy. Laird
continues to exhibit an attractive cash generation profile, with the
combination of our businesses yielding financial benefits to the
Group as a whole. This gives us the financial strength to make
further, value enhancing investments and acquisitions to ensure
that we maintain strong positions in our markets.
Building our Businesses for the Future
We are well positioned for 2004, given the strength of our
businesses, the actions we continue to take and the strategy
we have in place. We are expanding into related market segments
and will continue with our programme of making bolt-on
acquisitions. We have begun to see an improvement in certain of
our markets, particularly those serving the electronics industries.
With the developments we have made and the actions we are
taking, we look forward to making further progress in 2004.
Peter Hill
Chief Executive
This was followed in October by our first move into the thermal
management market with the acquisition of Orcus Inc. in the USA,
a supplier of differential phase change thermal interface materials
used by the electronics industry as a heat transfer medium
between heat sources and heat dissipation devices. 
In December, we acquired Warth Limited, with facilities in the UK
and Japan. Warth supplies thermally conductive silicone polymer
products for the electronics industry as well as distributing a wider
range of thermal management products, and manufactures
specialist EMI products for the European and Japanese markets.
There were also acquisitions to strengthen the core business of
Laird Security Systems, at the same time as expanding into new
and higher growth market sectors. In February we acquired
Omega, a leading supplier of constant force balances to the US
window industry, thereby further extending our product offering in
North America. 
In November, by acquiring Intron Limited, a supplier of high
specification composite doors to the social and private housing
markets, we established a strong position in this fast growing UK
market, where replacement is responsible for 90% of demand
which is itself driven by committed Government spending. Laird
Security Systems brings a differentiated and fully integrated
solution to this market.
A Strategy for Continuing Growth
Each of The Laird Group’s divisions holds leading market positions
in their industries, and we have made significant advances
in recent years in positioning our business portfolio towards
specialist, higher growth markets and this process continues.
Our acquisitions and divestments, and our entry into new growth
market segments, reflect this and, as with other areas of our
business, we aim over time to become leaders in these new
market segments. In keeping with this strategy, we will continue 
to seek out and exploit opportunities in other new areas related 
to our existing businesses.
Laird’s global reach is a critical success factor and we continued
to expand our Asian presence in 2003, with the number of our
employees there growing more than 60% in the year to over 700.
The region represents an exciting and growing market and our
presence there keeps us close to our customers in the region,
while also providing us with a lower cost supply base. We again
expanded our capacity and capabilities in China in 2003, extended
our operations in Japan and established a new presence in Korea.
Operationally, we continue to focus on performance improvement
while remaining close to our customers, delivering high levels of
customer service. We will continue to develop the breadth and
capabilities of our products. These strengths are underpinned by
our low-cost manufacturing base, which will be enhanced further
in 2004 as our new plant in the Czech Republic comes on stream.
THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 05 06 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC
Laird Technologies THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 07
Laird Technologies is the global 
market leader in the design and 
supply of electromagnetic interference
shielding solutions, covering all
sectors of the electronics industry
Laird Technologies’ engineering,
manufacturing and technical
staff are recognised as pioneers
in the development of 
EMI solutions
Laird Technologies’ extensive
global presence means that
customers receive local service
on a global scale 08 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC Laird Technologies is the global market leader in the design and
supply of electromagnetic interference (EMI) shielding solutions, 
covering all sectors of the electronics industry: information
technology, telecommunications and data transfer, as well as the
defence, automotive and medical sectors. Laird Technologies has
also established a growing presence in the design and supply of
thermal management products and solutions for electronic devices.
Global Market Leadership
Laird Technologies’ markets had strengthened by the end of 
2003, having been subdued during the first half of the year and 
with Asian electronics and mobile telephone demand adversely
affected by the outbreak of SARS. By the end of the third quarter
there was increasing evidence that demand was picking up, and
order intake for Laird Technologies strengthened during the latter
part of the year. Turnover for 2003 was £95.8 million, up from
£92.4 million in 2002 with the benefits from acquisitions offsetting
adverse currency translation effects. At constant exchange rates
turnover would have been up 11%, as a result of acquisitions.
Operating profits before exceptional items were £12.6 million for 
the year, 17% up on the £10.8 million in 2002 and up 23% at
constant exchange rates. Operating margins continued to improve
as a result of a further expansion of low-cost manufacturing and
additional operational efficiencies, despite modest price declines in
certain product sectors.
Growth through Acquisition
Laird entered the EMI market with the acquisition of APM in the
mid 1990s together with a spin-off from the Group’s successful
sealing business and rapidly established itself as a leading supplier
of high quality metallised fabric-over-foam EMI seals. Further
acquisitions gave Laird Technologies market leadership positions in
the supply of precision stamped metal shields, radiation absorber
materials and, in 2002, printed circuit board EMI shields,
predominantly for the mobile telephone handset market. Laird
Technologies also extended its geographic reach during this
process, firmly establishing itself as the global market leader in
EMI shielding.
In late 2003, as part of its strategy to expand beyond EMI while
leveraging its global presence, as well as its design and
manufacturing capabilities, Laird entered the electronic thermal
management market, with the acquisition of Orcus in the US, a
specialist supplier of thermal interface materials. This was followed
rapidly by the acquisition of Warth, a supplier of thermal interface
and EMI products in the UK and Japan. 
Opportunities are being sought to expand further into other
specialist areas of thermal management products and solutions, 
as well as into other new, but related, product areas which either
protect or enhance the performance of electronic devices.
0
25
50
Turnover 
£m
Operating profit
£m
2003
2002
0
4
8
12
THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 09
75
100 16 Establishing a Presence in Central Europe
Following investment grant approval in May 2003 from the
Government of the Czech Republic, construction began in July on
a new manufacturing plant at Liberec, north of Prague. The new
plant was handed over by the building contractors on schedule
and to budget in late December and the transfer of equipment
began, with the first sales from the plant in January 2004. Once
fully operational, in the second half of this year, the new facility will
provide customers with a complete range of shielding products
and solutions as well as a full engineering, design and prototyping
capability. Laird Technologies’ manufacturing capacity in Scotland
and in Germany was reduced as planned in the latter part of 2003.
Expansion across Asia
Laird Technologies continued the development of its operations in
China during the year. A second building was leased in Shenzhen,
in southern China, allowing the expansion of fabric-over-foam
capacity and the establishment of a full prototyping and design
centre. The new beryllium copper facility came on stream during
2003, as did the new Flectron
®
metallised fabric line. A third
building in Shenzhen will be leased during 2004. The Shanghai
plant has been doubled in size with the lease of new space, 
and full board level shield production is building up there. 
Fabric-over-foam capacity was also installed during the year and,
together with our sales office in Suzhou, will allow us to service 
the growing IT equipment providers in eastern China. Production
capacity at Laird Technologies’ plant at Tianjin, in north-eastern
China, which is located close to the major facilities of leading
mobile telephone providers, is also being expanded, with the
addition of board level shield manufacture and design to the
existing form and mould in place capabilities.
Elsewhere in Asia Laird Technologies has established a direct
presence in Korea for the first time, with the acquisition of Magnes.
This enables us to serve better the important electronics
manufacturers which are based there, as well as positioning us to
serve the major Korean electronics companies globally. Our
operation in Japan was expanded towards the end of the year and
this, combined with the acquisition of Warth and its Japanese
facility and capabilities, means that Laird will be able to serve its
existing and potential Japanese customers, both in Japan and in
Asia generally, to a higher level.
Extending our Global Leadership Position
Laird Technologies has seen a recovery in demand in the mobile
telephone market, increased volume demand in the IT sector, and
the initial signs of recovery in the telecommunications infrastructure
and data transfer segments. The military and automotive markets
are also growth areas for EMI shielding and thermal management
products. This recovery in our markets, the actions we continue 
to take to expand and improve our core EMI shielding business,
together with our expansion into new but related electronics
products and solutions, should ensure that Laird Technologies will
deliver further profitable growth.
10 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 11 12 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC
Laird Security Systems
3D computer aided design
improves and speeds the 
new product development
process and aids the objective 
of “right first time products”
A measure of Laird Security Systems’
creativity is the continuous flow of
patents and registered designs that
are awarded to the design teams
every year
Laird Security Systems’
business model remains 
that of an integrated global
engineering, design and low
cost manufacturing structure,
supported by strong local
execution and dedication 
to the customer THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 13 14 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC Laird Security Systems is a leader in the design, development,
manufacture and distribution of innovative solutions to improve
performance and enhance security for the residential building and
home improvement markets. We supply a comprehensive range of
security, hardware and sealing products for windows and doors in
the UK and North America.
Growth through Customer Partnership
Laird Security Systems had another very successful year in 2003,
once again reporting growth in turnover, profit and operating
margins together with strong cash generation. This was achieved
despite the adverse translation effect of exchange rate movements
on its US operations and input pricing pressure on its uPVC
products as a result of higher oil prices. In the UK, window volume
demand again showed a small decline, with growth in the door
and conservatory segments. In the US, our markets again showed
modest growth. Turnover in 2003 increased 5% to £205.3 million,
compared with £195.9 million in 2002, with turnover growth of 9%
at constant exchange rates.
Turnover growth was achieved both in the UK and in North America
as we continued to benefit from our close relationship with our
major customers, and also through industry leading performance
in product development underscored by the highest levels of
customer service and support. Increasingly, we work directly with
our major customers in new product design and development,
thereby becoming an integrated service provider in the supply
chain of our customers. Through bolt-on acquisitions in recent
years we have also generated steady turnover growth, with the
enhancement of existing products and the benefits derived from
access to the engineering, sales and distribution network of
Laird Security Systems.
Operating profits for the year, before exceptional items, grew 10%
to £24.8 million in 2003 compared with £22.6 million reported in
2002. At constant exchange rates the profits growth was 19%,
demonstrating the robustness of Laird Security Systems’ business
model after the 14% profits growth at constant exchange rates
delivered in 2002, which followed a 30% growth in operating
profits achieved in 2001.
Success and Innovation with a Robust Business Model
Our business model continues to be based on integrated global
engineering and design with low-cost manufacturing, supported 
by strong local execution and dedication to the customer, with
products being adapted where necessary for the local market.
In addition, we work alongside our customers in product and
market development, and we are also increasingly focusing on 
the identification and exploitation of higher growth segments 
within our overall market.
An example of this approach has been our expansion of door
related products, which contributed to the enhanced sales and
profit generation during the year. In the UK, growth continued in
our multi-point lock, door hinge and door handle programmes,
while in the US further growth was seen in the sales of Sash
Controls’ door products, with profitability being enhanced by the
transfer of product manufacturing to China. An initiative with a
major American customer is expected to result in a new, specially
designed door hardware product range for North America being
launched in the second half of 2004, and this will be an important
breakthrough for us in this growing North American market
segment.
0
50
100
150
200
250
Turnover 
£m
Operating profit
£m
2003
2002
0
6
12
18
24
30
THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 15 Laird Security Systems has also continued to demonstrate overall
sales and profits growth in its traditional window hardware, seals
and uPVC profiles businesses. In particular, window balances in
the US, where we are the market leader, and also high quality,
engineered weatherproofing seals, showed good growth. Sales
also benefited from the introduction of our new combination
balance and uPVC profile “Jambliner” product in the US, and
growth in demand for the “Legend 70” window system in the UK,
though growth in profitability was held back as a result of higher
resin prices. 
Following the acquisition of Omega in February 2003, constant
force balance production was transferred to an existing Laird
Security Systems facility in North Carolina in the US, with the
original facility in West Virginia being closed. Window hardware
product transfer to China from the UK continued during 2003,
which will allow the friction stay manufacturing facility in
Cheltenham to be closed, while production in China of window
hardware products using the new Physical Vapour Deposition
corrosion resistance coating application was expanded. 
Laird Security Systems extended its geographic coverage in the
US at the end of 2003 with the opening of a new branch in the
western US, which will provide support to our larger customers 
on a national scale as well as access to the local market in that
region. Market research was completed during the year into
serving the local Chinese and Asian markets with a select range of
door and window hardware products, and a pilot sales and
marketing campaign will begin in 2004. Trials of our prototype
electronic access controls for windows and doors continued in the
UK during 2003, confirming the technical viability of the product
offering. Market acceptance trials are currently underway which,
if successful, will result in the start of commercial scale
development during 2004, aimed at both the new build and
replacement residential markets. 
Growth Markets and New Routes to Market
As part of a strategy of identifying and exploiting higher growth
sectors within our overall market, Laird Security Systems acquired
Intron Limited, a leading UK composite door manufacturer, in
November 2003. The market for composite doors is growing due
largely to a number of Government funded social housing
initiatives, where the combination of security and maintenance
characteristics result in composite doors being the preferred
product. Our long-standing relationship with the local authority
market, together with specifically developed hardware solutions,
has positioned us to be a leading player in this market.
New routes to market were also developed in 2003 and sales to
the DIY market in the UK continued to grow. Cellular uPVC roofline
products were launched in the UK through major DIY outlets, with
an installation programme to be rolled out in 2004. Following the
success of Laird Security Systems’ Ventrolla window renovation
franchise business in recent years, a pilot lock installation and
maintenance operation was launched in 2003. The intention is to
develop a national UK franchise of security hardware installers,
providing high standards of reliable service to the consumer,
supported by national quality and marketing expertise. 
Demonstrating Leadership through Organic Growth
and Acquisition
Laird Security Systems has continued to strengthen and develop
its business, both organically and through bolt-on acquisitions,
through an integrated global product to market strategy. Strong
customer relationships combined with high levels of customer
service, a broad product offering supported by a well established
low-cost manufacturing base, together with an increasing focus on
higher growth market segments, are all expected to combine to
support the profitable growth of Laird Security Systems.
16 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 17 18 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC
Laird Plastics THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 19
Laird Plastics is now firmly established
as a market and performance leader in
North American plastics distribution
Laird Plastics’ sales representative
network was expanded and 
strengthened during the year, 
with new market and product 
driven sales plans being introduced
High impact acrylic, distributed
by Laird Plastics, is the perfect
material for runway signage,
where the emphasis is on
visibility and durability 20 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC With 47 Service Centres in operation across the USA and Canada,
Laird Plastics is the leading independent plastics distributor in
North America. As their channel to market, the business
represents major North American and international suppliers of 
an extensive range of plastic products and sells to a wide array 
of end use markets and customers. 
A Year of Solid Growth
The solid recovery in Laird Plastics’ performance, starting in 2002,
continued throughout 2003. This owed much to the actions taken
to strengthen and improve the business and was achieved in the
face of continuing weak economic and market conditions, the
effect of higher oil prices and increased industry competition.
Turnover for 2003 was £127.7 million compared with £136.0 million
in 2002, with turnover growth at constant exchange rates of 4%.
This growth in turnover resulted from a greater focus during the year
on specialist product sectors such as graphics, with new product
specialists added, and from increased sales of mechanical plastics
to several new key accounts. Market share gains were achieved 
in certain key sectors, customer service levels were improved 
and the customer base expanded. However, in the acrylic and
polycarbonate product lines pricing pressure from an oversupplied
market limited the opportunities for growth.
Operating profits before exceptional items for the year were
£4.0 million, an increase of 43% on the £2.8 million reported in 2002
and up 56% at constant exchange rates. This strong profit
improvement was achieved even though we faced input pricing
pressure during the year, and resulted in operating margins
increasing towards industry leading levels. The focus on improving
transactional efficiencies, the achievement of cost savings from
consolidating freight vendors and an improvement in materials
margins through working closely with major vendors, all contributed to
the greater profitability. A continued focus on working capital
management and on streamlining the supply chain also contributed
to another year of strong cash generation from the business.
Positioning for the Future
Management at Laird Plastics was further strengthened in 2003
and we continued with the reinforcing and repositioning, started in
2002, of the Service Centre network. Some smaller Service
Centres that were in sub-optimal locations or unable to achieve
the necessary critical mass were closed. New operations were
started in Halifax, Nova Scotia and Fort Lauderdale, Florida, where
there is considerable market potential but which hitherto had been
under-represented. Service Centres in Toronto and Vancouver in
Canada, and Tampa in the US, were relocated into larger and more
efficient premises, thus better positioning us to serve customers in
those regions and take advantage of local demand growth. 
Our sales representative network was expanded and strengthened
during the year, with new market and product driven sales plans
being introduced. These plans highlight the use of new specialists
in various product and market segments to take full advantage of
increasing customer demands and an improving North American
economy, with further initiatives in hand in 2004. Following some
early success in 2003, the focus on developing new national
accounts, by taking advantage of our geographic coverage across
the United States and Canada, is also expected to deliver
additional benefits this year and significant interest and
opportunities are now seen across the marketplace. 
Important investments continued during 2003 to enhance the
capability of the business. A programme of replacing older cutting
equipment continued with a number of new computerised panel
saws being installed, which allowed us to benefit from higher value-
added sales and additional new cutting equipment will be added in
2004. A programme to upgrade and replace the information
technology equipment used in Laird Plastics was also completed
during the year. The introduction of new sales order and e-business
software is providing additional internet based customer service and
company wide knowledge management, via central call reporting
capabilities. At the end of 2003 Laird Plastics launched the “Laird
University”, an internal organisation that will provide recruitment,
training, management development and quality control for the
business, in order to meet the increasingly demanding customer
expectations for service and support. 
A Solid Platform for Long Term Growth
Laird Plastics has created a solid platform for long term growth in
its business, while the beginnings of a strengthening in demand
are emerging across a number of its market sectors. This, together
with the actions taken to strengthen and improve the business,
is expected to result in further progress being made in 2004
as well as providing a platform for future growth, firmly establishing
Laird Plastics as a market and performance leader in North
American plastics distribution. 
0
30
60
90
Turnover 
£m
Operating profit
£m
2003
2002
0
1
THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 21
150
120 4
3
2
5
