 A Return to Dividend Growth
In line with the return to dividend growth established at the time of
our Interim Results in July 2003, your Board is recommending a
final dividend of 5.6 pence per share. This will provide a total
dividend for the year of 8.6 pence per share, compared with
8.3 pence per share for 2002.
Board Development
Mark Smith, Deputy Chairman and senior independent Non-Executive
Director, will, as previously announced, retire from the Board at the
Annual General Meeting in May 2004, after ten years as a Director.
I would like to thank Mark for his valuable service and extensive
contribution to the development of the Group. He will be succeeded 
as senior independent Non-Executive Director by David Morton. David,
a former Chairman and CEO of Alcan Aluminium, joined the Board in
1998 and his knowledge of The Laird Group coupled with his wealth
of industrial business and Board experience, particularly in North
America, equips him well for this role. Later in the year we will also
be announcing new appointments to the Board.
Employees
As a global business Laird employs people of many different
nationalities and cultures, and the very significant progress that we
have demonstrated during the year has been achieved through the
dedication and effort shown, and the successes achieved, by
them. Their energy and commitment are an essential part of what
makes Laird a successful and growing company, and I would like
to take this opportunity to thank them all.
Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility
Companies today exist in a climate focused on corporate
responsibility, encompassing good governance and high standards
of care. Considerable work was undertaken during the year to
ensure that the Group is in compliance with all aspects of the new
Combined Code which is effective in 2004. We have maintained
an active investor relations programme to ensure a full and open
dialogue with our shareholders and, through an independent third
party, commissioned during 2003 a formal opinion survey of
eighteen of our main shareholders, with positive results. 
It is important for us to be good corporate citizens in the many
different locations and environments in which we work and we have
therefore developed and promulgated new Group policies on
Ethics, on Health, Safety and the Environment and on Employment. 
The majority of our main manufacturing facilities are now ISO 9001
or ISO 9000 certified, with their demanding standards of quality
and safety, and our ultimate goal is to expand this to all of our
main manufacturing plants within the next twelve months, and 
include the ISO 14001 standard, with its additional environmental
requirements, in due course. Further details of our activities in all of
these areas are given later in this Report.
Looking Forward with Confidence
2003 was a year of significant progress, with continued strengthening
of our businesses and improved operating performance, resulting
in the delivery of strong profits and earnings growth. We have also
underpinned our already sound financial structure with the renewal
during the year of our bilateral banking facilities for a further five years,
to 2008, thus ensuring that we have the financial capacity to continue
making value enhancing investments and acquisitions. We have
started to see an improvement in certain of our markets, particularly
those serving the electronics industries. With this improving market
environment, the developments we have made and the actions 
we are taking, we look forward to 2004 with confidence.
Nigel Keen
Chairman
Chairman’s statement
A Year of Growth and Enhanced Shareholder Value
Laird today is an international Group, holding leadership positions
in the market segments where our businesses operate. We aim 
to deliver profitable growth by the continuing development and
strengthening of these businesses, building a competitive edge
through technology, customer service and low-cost manufacturing.
We focus on specialist markets which provide opportunities 
for growth and where our global reach gives us considerable
advantages over our competitors. Our growing presence in Asia
provides proximity to our customers in that region as well as a
lower cost supply base. The Laird strategy is one driven by the
overriding objective of creating and enhancing shareholder value,
today and for the future. 2003 marked a further year in the
successful implementation of this strategy.
Delivering Strong Profits and Earnings Growth
In 2003, we delivered strong profits and earnings growth, with 
all three of our divisions, Laird Technologies, Laird Security
Systems and Laird Plastics, again increasing their operating profits.
We achieved this in the context of difficult economic and market
conditions and geopolitical uncertainty in the early part of the year,
as well as the impact of SARS and the adverse translation effects
of exchange rate movements. Group profits for 2003, before
exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and tax, were £37.4 million,
27% up on the £29.4 million reported in 2002 and 18% up on the
£31.8 million from continuing operations. Earnings per share on a
similar basis were 21.6 pence, up 37% on the 15.8 pence in 2002,
and 25% up on the 2002 earnings from continuing operations of
17.3 pence. Cash generation was extremely healthy with a trading
cash inflow of £38.2 million compared with £30.2 million in 2002.
Net borrowings were reduced despite making a number of
acquisitions and continued investment during the year.
02 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 03
