  The Laird Group PLC 3
Chief Executive’s review
Securing the future
innovation and proﬁ t
Strategic Development
Laird has made further good progress in 2005, and has again delivered 
positive organic revenue growth together with good growth in underlying 
proﬁ ts and earnings.  We have continued to strengthen and develop our 
two market leading divisions, with recent acquisitions performing at or 
ahead of expectations.  
Over the last ﬁ ve years the Group has been transformed from a 
diversiﬁ ed industrial conglomerate to a higher growth, increasingly 
proﬁ table company focused on its two market leading divisions. 
Lower growth, low margin businesses have been and, where 
appropriate will continue to be, divested. Laird 
T echnologies and Laird Security 
Systems have been and continue 
to be strengthened and expanded, 
both through organic investment and 
through acquisitions, which have 
enhanced the technology, product 
offering, market positioning and 
geographic spread of the Group.
Delivery of Proﬁ table Growth 
Total Group revenue in 2005 
was £508.7 million, 9% 
up on the £468.0 million 
of total revenue in 
2004. Revenue 
from continuing 
operations, that is 
including acquisitions 
but excluding the 
disposals made in 
2004 and 2005, 
was £490.3 million, 
up 42% on the 
£345.5 million in 
2004. Underlying 
organic revenue
growth from 
continuing operations 
was 7%.
Underlying proﬁ t before tax 
was £55.1 million in 2005, 
19% higher than £46.4 million 
in 2004. The Group’ s 
underlying operating proﬁ t 
margin increased to 12.9%, 
from 11.1% in 2004 as a 
result of organic growth, 
a greater proportion of 
manufacturing from low 
cost countries and the 
portfolio repositioning.
Proﬁ t before taxation from 
continuing operations, after 
exceptional items, the 
amortisation of acquired 
intangibles and the fair valuing 
of ﬁ nancial instruments, was £34.3 million in 2005, compared with 
£40.6 million in 2004.
Underlying earnings per share in 2005 were 28.9 pence, 10% up on 
the 26.3 pence in 2004.
Exceptional costs of £15.5 million were incurred in the year (2004: 
£nil). This was largely as a result of the restructuring of Laird 
T echnologies’ Swedish antennae operations and their relocation 
to Central Europe, and of Laird Security Systems’ UK window 
hardware business and the resultant relocation to China, all as 
originally planned, together with the effects of the Pennsylvania ﬂ ood 
in April 2005 and the £4.0 million lease provision made consequent 
upon the disposal of Permacell Finesse in September.
Net borrowings at the year end were £148.1 million (2004: 
£118.6 million), representing 52% of shareholders’ funds. Interest 
cover for the year was 6.2 times. There was a strong trading cash 
inﬂ ow in the year of £34.0 million, compared with an inﬂ ow of 
£24.3 million in 2004. There was a net cash outﬂ ow on acquisitions 
and disposals of £29.1 million compared with £77.3 million in 2004, 
additional contributions of £5.8 million in 2005 (2004: £nil) into the 
Group’ s deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension schemes above the normal funding 
level of £1.9 million and a cash spend on exceptional items of 
£4.7 million compared with £2.6 million in 2004.
Beneﬁ ts of Strategic Acquisitions
Laird T echnologies made two acquisitions in 2005. Cateron, based 
in T aiwan and with a manufacturing facility in China, was acquired in 
January for approximately £13.0 million. Cateron, a leading supplier 
of EMI shielding products to the global PC notebook market, has 
performed ahead of expectations. The acquisition of Melcor, for 
approximately £11.0 million, was completed in October. Melcor, with 
facilities in New Jersey, USA and Quanzhou, China, designs and 
produces thermoelectric coolers, expanding Laird T echnologies’ 
existing thermal product range and broadening its served markets.
In May 2005 Laird Security Systems consolidated its position as 
the largest UK provider of composite doors to the growing social 
housing and Housing Association market with the acquisition of 
Securidor for approximately £6.0 million.  In September 2005 the 
acquisition of Builders Hardware in California, for approximately 
£6.0 million, provided Laird Security Systems with an expanded 
presence in the growing West Coast market and complements the 
existing door hardware product range in the USA.
Maintaining Progress
Laird has again made good progress in 2005, growing revenues 
and underlying proﬁ t.  The Group has continued to be developed 
strategically, and is well positioned to make further progress in 2006.
Peter Hill
Chief Executive 20
January 2005
Construction commences 
on a 35,000 sq m ‘ﬂ agship’ 
facility in Shenzhen, China, 
for Laird Technologies
January 2005
Acquisition 
of Cateron 
Corporation for 
Laird Technologies
May 2005
Acquisition of 
Securidor for Laird 
Security Systems
April 2005
Laird 
Technologies’ 
Pennsylvania 
facility 
temporarily 
closed due to 
ﬂ ooding
May 2005
Unveiling of Laird 
Technologies’ new antennae 
manufacturing facility in 
Szombathely, Hungary
Securing the future
through development
4 The Laird Group PLC 05
August 2005
NASA selects Laird 
Technologies Thermal 
Products’ T-pli™ gap ﬁ ller 
for Extravehicular Activity 
(EVA) camera onboard Space 
Shuttle Discovery
September 2005
Laird Security 
Systems exits 
the UK uPVC 
window systems 
market
October 2005
Centurion Wireless 
Technologies, a unit 
of Laird Technologies, 
ships its one billionth 
handset antennae
September 2005
Laird Security 
Systems 
expands into 
US West Coast 
window and 
door hardware 
market with 
the acquisition 
of Builders 
Hardware Inc
September 2005
Ground-breaking 
commences for a new 
23,000 sq m Laird 
Technologies antennae 
facility in Beijing, China
October 2005
Laird 
Technologies 
acquires Melcor 
Corporation, a 
manufacturer 
of advanced 
thermal 
management 
solutions to a 
variety of end-
use markets
 The Laird Group PLC 5 6 The Laird Group PLC
Laird Technologies
Partners in Design
Laird Technologies is a leading 
international supplier of custom 
designed electronic components 
and solutions to the global 
electronics industries, including 
telecommunications infrastructure, 
cellular handsets, data transfer and 
information technology, and also 
supplies the automotive, aerospace 
and defence, consumer electronics, 
medical and industrial markets. 
Laird believes that Laird 
Technologies is the global market 
leader in the design and supply of both 
EMI shielding solutions and wireless 
cellular handset antennae; it also has 
an increasing presence in the emerging 
applications of telematics and Wi-Fi. 
Laird has also established a growing 
presence in the design and supply 
of thermal management products 
and solutions for electronic devices. 
Its products, often co-designed in 
conjunction with its customers, are 
critical in protecting or enhancing the 
performance of electronic devices. 
As leading global electronics 
manufacturers look to focus their 
internal processes around brand 
management and sales generation, 
they look increasingly to Laird 
Technologies to provide a more 
comprehensive suite of products, 
design engineering and testing, as well 
as integration with their global supply 
chain and research and development. 
Strong growth in revenues and 
proﬁ ts 
In markets that generally remained 
buoyant in 2005, Laird Technologies 
beneﬁ ted particularly from the strong 
demand for its EMI shielding and 
antennae products for the cellular 
handset market, where industry 
commentators believe that global 
unit handset shipments increased by 
approximately 20% compared with 
2004, to approximately 820 million 
units. 
Revenue grew by some 82% in the 
year to £259.4 million compared with 
£142.8 million in 2004. This strong 
growth in revenues was the result 
of acquisitions, most notably that of 
Centurion Wireless Technologies which 
was acquired in October 2004, and 
the organic revenue growth of 15% 
achieved in the year. 
EMI product line revenues were 
£135.0 million in 2005, with organic 
revenue growth of 16%. Antennae 
revenues were £103.0 million, with 
organic revenue growth of 36%, while 
revenues from the lower margin power 
products were £9.0 million, a decline 
of 58% organically as programmes 
became end-of-life and were not 
replaced. Thermal products revenues 
were £12.0 million in the year, with 
the business undergoing a period of 
consolidation. 
Underlying operating proﬁ ts also 
grew by some 82%, to £37.7 million, 
compared with £20.7 million in 2004, 
as a result of the organic revenue 
growth, the beneﬁ ts of acquisitions 
and the increased levels of production 
from lower cost countries. Operating 
margins were maintained, at 14.5%, 
despite the acquisition of Centurion’s 
lower margin businesses which have 
a higher “bought in” materials content 
compared to Laird Technologies’ EMI 
shielding and thermal products. 
Beneﬁ ts of strategic acquisitions 
Laird Technologies made two 
acquisitions in 2005. Cateron, based in 
Taiwan and with a manufacturing facility 
in China, was acquired in January for 
approximately £13.0 million and has 
performed ahead of expectations. 
Cateron is believed to be the leading 
supplier of EMI shielding, fabric over 
foam gaskets and tape to the global 
PC notebook market. Its strong 
position with Taiwanese Original Design 
Manufacturers has the potential to 
provide sales of antennae and thermal 
products and to provide a full service 
design and supply offering. 
The acquisition of Melcor, for 
approximately £11.0 million was 
completed in October 2005. Melcor 
has facilities in New Jersey, USA and 
Quanzhou, China. The Company 
designs and produces thermoelectric 
coolers, which actively transport 
thermal energy across a semiconductor 
junction coupled with electron ﬂ ow, 
Securing the future
through technical expertise The Laird Group PLC 7 8 The Laird Group PLC
expanding Laird Technologies’ existing 
thermal product range and broadening 
its served markets. 
The acquisition of Antenex, Inc., 
for approximately £10.0 million was 
announced on 8 March 2006. Antenex, 
Inc. designs and manufactures a 
range of antennae products for 
communications in the transportation, 
defence, public safety, system and 
medical sectors, complementing 
Laird Technologies’ existing antennae 
product offering. 
Centurion Wireless Technologies, 
acquired in October 2004, also 
performed ahead of expectations. 
Cost synergies of $5.0 million in 
2006, announced at the time of the 
acquisition, are still expected to be 
achieved, while the ﬁ rst “synergy” 
sales have been made. Laird 
Technologies, including Centurion, 
shipped 170 million cellular antennae 
units, a growth of 23% compared with 
Centurion’s shipments in 2004, as a 
result of strong market demand and 
market share gains. Strong growth 
was also achieved in telematics and 
other wireless antennae shipments. 
In October 2005 Centurion reached a 
milestone with the shipping of its one 
billionth wireless handset antenna. 
Operational and geographic 
development 
Asia continues to be of increasing 
importance to Laird Technologies, 
both as a growing market and as a 
low cost manufacturing base, and is 
also becoming increasingly important 
as a design and development centre. 
In 2005, 50% of Laird Technologies’ 
revenues by destination were from Asia 
(2004: 45%) and 54% of revenues by 
origin (2004: 33%). At the end of 2005, 
Laird Technologies had approximately 
6,600 employees, of whom 75% were 
in Asia, the majority in China. 
In China, construction of a new 
35,000 square metre facility in 
Shenzhen was completed by the year 
end, and it is expected that the facility 
will become operational during the ﬁ rst 
half of 2006 focusing initially on EMI 
shielding products. A global production 
tooling centre for Laird Technologies is 
also being established there. 
Construction of a new 23,000 
square metre facility in Beijing for 
production of wireless handset 
antennae, and incorporating a major 
design centre, is well under way, and 
it is expected will be operational by 
June 2006. 
Further expansion in Tianjin will 
support growth in the production of 
shielding products for the wireless 
handset market, as well as thermally 
or electrically conductive elastomer 
(“ECE”) products and materials. It 
is expected from early 2006, the 
manufacture of ECE products for Asia 
will be relocated to Tianjin from the 
USA and Europe. Additional production 
space was secured in Shanghai 
to support the increased output of 
board level shields for the wireless 
handset market. 
Elsewhere in Asia, a new production 
facility was established in Johor Baru, 
Malaysia, to provide shielding products 
for wireless handsets. In Korea two 
facilities have been consolidated into 
a new facility in Seoul, to create a 
single design and sales support centre 
for all Laird Technologies’ products. 
In Taiwan, facility consolidation has 
taken place following the acquisition 
of Centurion and Cateron. Antennae 
design, prototyping and testing 
capabilities will be established in both 
Korea and Taiwan in 2006 to support 
local customers. 
In the USA, the EMI shielding plant in 
Pennsylvania closed by ﬂ ood damage 
in April 2005 was re-opened and order 
intake restored. Approximately 20% 
of the pre-ﬂ ood production has been 
relocated permanently to other Laird 
Technologies facilities, and the head 
count has reduced by approximately 
one third. A new ﬂ ood protection levee 
has been constructed on site. 
In Europe, the two UK facilities were 
consolidated into one, and the majority 
of UK manufacturing relocated to 
Liberec in the Czech Republic where 
production continues to be expanded. 
Liberec now supplies the majority of 
European EMI shielding products. 
Almost all antennae production from  The Laird Group PLC 9
Sweden has been relocated to 
Beijing, China and to a new facility 
in Szombathely, Hungary, to supply 
the Central European electronics 
manufacturing centres of Laird 
Technologies’ customers. 
A new facility is planned for 
Reynosa, Mexico during 2006, initially 
for antennae production but with 
the ability to expand to cover other 
products, and a feasibility study in 
2006 will assess the potential for a 
similar facility in India. 
Technical development 
During 2005 Laird T echnologies 
continued to expand and develop 
its technology capabilities with 
370 patents issued and 180 
pending and some 280 engineers 
and technologists were employed 
worldwide at the year end. 
New EMI shielding products under 
development or commercialised 
during 2005 included “Eco Green”, 
a fabric over foam product for the 
consumer electronics industry and the 
development of a range of mould-in 
place environmental gaskets. 
In antennae, Laird Technologies 
continues to develop new integrated 
antennae modules, including the 
ﬁ rst software controlled antennae, 
to cope with the increasing complex 
demands for multiple applications. 
New antennae products included an 
enhanced, ceramic based production 
line for non-cellular frequencies. 
A number of new thermal interface 
products including specialist 
thermally conductive greases, are 
being developed. In August, Laird 
Technologies’ T-Pli2000
®
 
series 
gap ﬁ ller was selected by NASA 
for use aboard the space shuttle 
Discovery. Following the acquisition 
of Melcor, a new range of enhanced 
thermoelectric coolers, to improve 
thermal and mechanical performance 
is planned. 
Extending global leadership 
Laird Technologies had another 
successful year in 2005. Its 
close customer relationships, its 
increasingly broad product offering, 
its expanding base of technical 
expertise and its well established, but 
still growing, low cost manufacturing 
base, is expected to provide a sound 
platform from which to extend further 
its global leadership positions 
during 2006. 10 The Laird Group PLC
Laird Security Systems
Innovative home improvement 
solutions 
Laird Security Systems is a leader in 
the design, development, manufacture 
and distribution of innovative products 
and solutions. These aim to improve 
performance and thermal efﬁ ciency, 
and enhance protection and security, 
for homes and buildings within the 
UK and USA residential building and 
home improvement markets. Its wide 
range of products include window 
and door hardware, composite doors, 
conservatories, uPVC products and 
weatherstripping seals. 
In recent years the product range 
has been broadened and the business 
is being repositioned towards the 
higher growth segments of its markets. 
Laird Security Systems sources an 
increasing proportion of its hardware 
products from its well established 
supply base in China, both from its 
own manufacturing facilities and from 
its partner suppliers. 
Beneﬁ ts of broad market spread 
Laird Security Systems’ markets 
were mixed in 2005. In the UK the 
overall housing market slowed, as 
did the renovation market, while the 
markets for replacement windows and 
conservatories were particularly hard 
hit. In contrast, the UK social housing 
market, where Laird Security Systems 
is a major supplier of composite doors, 
remained buoyant. 
In the USA, the market overall 
continued to be favourable across all 
of Laird Security Systems’ product 
lines. In particular the renovation 
market remained relatively buoyant, as 
geographically did the Southern US 
and West Coast markets overall. 
Laird Security Systems delivered 
a solid performance in 2005, with 
continuing revenue up 14% to 
£230.9 million in the year, compared 
with £202.7 million in 2004. Organic 
revenue growth was ﬂ at overall for Laird 
Security Systems as a whole, with a 
decline of 10% in the UK being offset 
by positive organic growth of 15% in 
the USA. 
UK revenue from continuing 
businesses in 2005 was approximately 
£131.0 million. Of this, 29% 
represented window hardware, 27% 
doors, 22% door hardware, and 12% 
windows and conservatories. 
USA revenue in 2005 was 
approximately £100.0 million. Of this, 
60% represented window hardware, 
18% seals, 12% door hardware and 
10% uPVC extrusions. 
Laird Security Systems was again 
able to show underlying proﬁ t growth, 
of 5%, despite its mixed markets and 
the adverse impact of commodity 
prices. Underlying operating proﬁ ts for 
2005 were £28.1 million, compared 
with £26.7 million in 2004. Operating 
margin for the year was 12%. 
Commodity prices remained volatile 
overall. Through carefully managing the 
relationship between input and output 
pricing, Laird Security Systems was 
able to contain the adverse effect of 
higher commodity prices in the year to 
some £1.0 million. 
Portfolio repositioning 
In May 2005, Laird Security Systems 
consolidated its position as the largest 
UK provider of composite doors to the 
growing social housing and Housing 
Association market with the acquisition 
of Securidor for approximately 
£6.0 million. This followed the 
acquisition of Intron in 2003 and 
Lindman in 2004 and increases further 
the product range offered to this 
growing market. 
In September 2005, the acquisition 
of Builders Hardware in California, for 
approximately £6.0 million, provided 
an expanded presence in the growing 
West Coast market and complements 
the existing door hardware product 
range in the USA. Proﬁ tability should be 
enhanced by re-sourcing the majority 
of Builders Hardware’s existing product 
lines to our and our partner suppliers’ 
operations in China. 
The acquisition of Builders Hardware 
was supplemented by the acquisition 
of Bandlock Corporation in March 
2006 for approximately £10.0 million. 
Bandlock Corporation is a California-
based seals and extrusion business, 
which will provide Laird Security 
Systems not only with the beneﬁ ts of 
Securing the future
through innovation The Laird Group PLC 11 12 The Laird Group PLC
a broader product offering close to 
customers on the US West Coast, but 
will also complement its existing US 
seals and extrusions businesses. 
Balance UK, acquired on 1 March 
2006, supplies a range of heavy duty 
window balances. This will enhance 
the product range of Laird’s US 
operations, to which Balance UK 
will report, allowing sales of these 
window balances to Laird’s existing 
US customers. 
The disposal of Permacell Finesse 
in the UK, an extruder of rigid 
uPVC window proﬁ les and cellular 
uPVC products, was completed 
in September 2005. Laird Security 
Systems had a relatively small market 
share in this business segment, 
which was also under signiﬁ cant price 
pressure as a result of high oil and 
resin prices. The business was facing 
increasingly difﬁ cult trading conditions, 
and recorded an operating loss in the 
year of £0.2 million through the point 
of sale. Following certain post closing 
adjustments, the net proceeds received 
were approximately £5.0 million. 
The effect of these acquisitions and 
the disposal has been to continue 
to reposition Laird Security Systems 
towards higher growth markets, 
particularly in the USA, in line with the 
Group’s strategy. It is expected that 
this overall strategy will continue to be 
pursued. 
Operational and geographic 
development 
In response to market conditions, 
headcount in the UK window hardware 
and components businesses was 
reduced by some 300 during the year, 
or some 35% of the combined total in 
these businesses. The hardware facility 
in Essex was downsized signiﬁ cantly, 
with the majority of manufacturing 
being re-sourced to China. At Laird 
Lifestyle Products, manufacturing 
operations were consolidated further, 
to improve efﬁ ciencies and provide a 
greater emphasis on marketing and 
product positioning. 
In the UK composite door 
business, the three sites resulting 
from acquisitions in this sector will be 
consolidated into two in the ﬁ rst half 
of 2006, with a capacity expansion 
at one of the facilities scheduled for 
completion at the end of the ﬁ rst 
quarter of 2006. These actions, 
together with Laird Security Systems’ 
technical capabilities and broad 
product range, should leave this 
business well placed to take advantage 
of the continuing market growth 
expected in this sector. 
In the USA, the window hardware, 
door hardware, weather seals and 
uPVC extrusions businesses each 
had an excellent year, with each 
product line showing good growth. 
The capacity expansion at the seals 
business in the North Eastern US, 
which was commenced in 2004, 
became fully operational in 2005. In 
2006, capacity of door hardware in 
the Mid Western US, and of window 
hardware in the South Eastern US, will 
be expanded to allow Laird to service 
increasing demand from customers. 
Laird Security Systems in the 
USA is beneﬁ ting from the growing 
renovation and improvement market, 
through favourable product trends in 
its main market segments, and through 
market share gains, both directly and 
through the continuing consolidation 
of its customer base. Laird Security 
Systems’ design capabilities and its 
high levels of customer service remain 
key to its success in North America. 
In Asia, sales of products 
manufactured in Asia grew by 
approximately 15% in 2005. The 
facilities in Ningbo, China, were 
expanded during the year. Sourcing 
from partner suppliers was also 
expanded; these suppliers are 
integrated into Laird Security Systems’ 
supply chain, which provides them 
with engineering expertise, specialised 
investment and quality control.  The Laird Group PLC 13
Innovation 
Laird Security Systems maintained 
its focus on product innovation and 
development, continuing to develop 
its intellectual property portfolio, 
while acting aggressively to defend 
successfully a number of attempted 
patent infringements. There were sales 
in 2005 from the new Springback 
sealing product range, innovative 
new window balance designs, and an 
increasing range of multipoint locks, all 
developed since 2003. Laird Security 
Systems continues with its product 
innovation and new designs, both to 
differentiate itself from its competitors 
and to provide enhanced functionality 
for its customers.
 Design teams in the UK and the 
USA are being integrated with the 
engineering, tooling and prototyping 
capabilities that are now ﬁ rmly 
established in Asia. As a result of this 
initiative, an innovative new range of 
window hardware products will be 
introduced into the US market during 
2006 and 2007. 
Laird Security Systems is targeting 
its product development to beneﬁ t 
from three macro trends which it sees 
emerging over the next few years. 
One is more demanding construction 
standards in North America, to reduce 
hurricane damage. A second is 
higher security allied to ease of use, 
including electronic access controls, 
which is seen to be particularly 
applicable as demographic trends 
move towards an increasingly 
ageing population. A third is the 
expected trend towards even greater 
insulation and thermal efﬁ ciency, as 
governments and consumers adjust 
to higher energy prices. 
Development of the strategy 
Laird Security Systems has continued 
to provide innovative local solutions 
to its customers allied to what are 
believed to be industry leading 
service levels on a global basis, 
underpinned by a still expanding low 
cost engineering and manufacturing 
capability in Asia. Within the division 
there is now a much broader presence 
in a range of markets, products and 
sales channels, allowing the division to 
continue its record of proﬁ table growth 
despite increased commodity prices 
and some weaker market sectors. 
Laird Security Systems is reducing its 
exposure to the mature UK window 
market and continuing its repositioning 
to higher growth markets, particularly in 
North America. 
