 Chairman’s statement
Securing the future
a year of strategic growth
Strategy 
Laird has established a successful strategy of focusing on 
higher growth markets, obtaining a competitive edge through 
technology and customer service allied to a well established, 
but still expanding, low cost manufacturing base, currently in 
Asia and Central Europe and with the potential to be developed 
in Mexico and India. Laird’s strategy is to focus on specialist 
markets which provide opportunities for growth, while our global 
reach provides advantages compared to many of our more 
regional or local competitors. In line with this strategy Laird has 
expanded, and intends to continue to expand, the technology, 
market access, product offering and geographic spread of our 
divisions. The Laird strategy is one driven by the overriding 
objective of creating and growing shareholder value, today and in 
the future.
Delivery of Proﬁ table Growth
2005 saw further good progress made by the Group. We 
strengthened and developed both our market leading divisions, 
Laird Technologies and Laird Security Systems, during the year 
through organic investment and acquisitions, and continued our 
repositioning of the Group to higher growth markets. We have 
again delivered positive organic revenue growth together with 
good growth in underlying proﬁ ts and earnings. Group underlying 
proﬁ ts before tax were £55.1 million in 2005, up 19% on the 
£46.4 million reported in 2004. Earnings per share on a similar 
basis were 28.9 pence, up 10% on the 26.3 pence in 2004. 
Continuing Dividend Growth
The Board’s policy on dividends is to increase returns to 
shareholders progressively over time, reﬂ ecting both the 
underlying proﬁ tability of the Group and the cash ﬂ ow 
requirements of the business. Your Board is recommending a 
ﬁ nal dividend of 6.45 pence per share, payable to shareholders in 
respect of their shareholdings recorded on the register on 5 May 
2006. This will provide a total dividend for the year of 9.75 pence 
per share, compared with 9.2 pence per share for 2004 and 
represents an increase of 6%.
Board Development
David Morton, senior independent non-executive director, retired 
from the Board at the Annual General Meeting in May 2005. I 
would like to thank David for his valuable service and extensive 
contribution to the development of the Group. John McDowall 
has succeeded David Morton as the senior non-executive 
director of the Board.
Our Employees
Laird employs some 9,000 people of many different nationalities 
and cultures worldwide. The Group’s continuing progress and 
its further successful development during the year is a result 
of the hard work and dedication of these employees and the 
successes they have achieved. Their support and commitment 
underpins the service we provide to our customers, and is critical 
in furthering the growth and future success of the Group. I would 
like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the Board, to thank 
them all.
Corporate Social Responsibility
As a growing international Group, the Board believes that it is important 
for us to be good corporate citizens in the different locations and 
environments in which the Group operates. Our Group policies on 
ethics, on health, safety and the environment, and on employment 
are reinforced by a commitment to continuous improvement across 
our businesses. 2005 was a year of further progress 
in our overall performance in these areas. All of our 
main manufacturing facilities were accredited 
to the ISO 14001 standard, with its additional 
environmental requirements, during the course of 
the year , with the remaining recent acquisitions 
targeted to achieve accreditation during 2006. 
This is in addition to the majority of our main 
manufacturing facilities being ISO 9001 and 
9000 certiﬁ ed. We have seen beneﬁ ts of 
introducing these standards to our facilities 
and aim to reinforce these systems by 
completing the integration of the 
British Standards Occupational 
health and safety speciﬁ cation, 
OHSAS 18001, into each of 
our ISO 14001 registered 
sites during 2006. Further 
details of our activities in 
these areas are given 
in the Corporate 
Social Responsibility 
section of this 
Report.
Maintaining the 
Momentum of 
the Group
Laird has made 
further good 
progress in 2005, 
again delivering good 
growth in revenue and 
underlying proﬁ t. The strategic 
decisions which were made to 
focus the Group on its two high 
quality divisions, both of which 
have opportunities for growth, 
together with the investments 
that have been made to 
strengthen and develop each 
of them and to broaden their 
product and market spread, have 
again allowed the Group to move 
forward. The Group intends to 
continue to pursue and implement 
this strategy, and is well positioned 
to make further progress in 2006.
Nigel Keen
Chairman
2 The Laird Group PLC
