 The Laird Group PLC    3
Strategy
Over recent years Laird has been 
transformed from a diversiﬁ ed industrial 
conglomerate into a higher growth, 
increasingly proﬁ table company. We 
have established a successful strategy 
of focusing on high growth markets, 
obtaining a competitive edge through 
technology and customer service allied 
to a well established, and still expanding, 
low cost manufacturing base in East 
Asia, India, Mexico and Central Europe. 
We operate in specialist markets that 
provide opportunities for growth, with a 
global reach that provides advantages 
compared to many of our more regional 
or local competitors. We have expanded, 
and intend to continue to expand, our 
technology, market access, product 
offering and geographic spread, both 
organically and through acquisitions, 
as lower growth businesses have been 
divested. The Laird strategy is one driven 
by the overarching objective of creating 
and growing shareholder value. 
Delivery of Proﬁ table Growth 
Group revenue in 2006 was £608.3 million, 
up 24% on the £490.3 million of 
continuing revenue in 2005, with organic 
revenue growth for the Group, one of 
our key performance indicators (“KPIs”), 
of 11%.
Underlying proﬁ t before tax was a record 
£73.3 million in 2006, 33% higher than the 
£55.1 million in 2005, with the increase 
coming entirely from Laird Technologies. 
The Group’s underlying operating proﬁ t 
margin in the year, another of our KPIs, 
increased to 13.7%, from 12.9% in 2005 
as a result of organic growth, a greater 
proportion of manufacturing from low cost 
countries and the portfolio repositioning.
Proﬁ t before tax from continuing 
operations after exceptional items, the 
amortisation of acquired intangibles, the 
gain or loss on disposal of businesses and 
the fair valuing of ﬁ nancial instruments, in 
2006 was £66.4 million, up 94% on the 
£34.3 million in 2005.
Underlying earnings per share in 2006 
were 31.7 pence, up 16% on the 
27.3 pence in 2005 (which have been 
restated for the bonus element of the 4 for 
17 Rights Issue in the ﬁ rst half of 2006). 
Underlying earnings per share growth, 
another of our KPIs, was 16%.
There were no exceptional costs incurred 
in the year (2005, £15.5 million). 
Net borrowings at the year end were 
£109.1 million (2005, £148.1 million), 
representing 27% of shareholders’ funds. 
Interest cover for the year was 8.4 times. 
There was a trading cash inﬂ ow in the 
year of £50.9 million (2005, £34.0 million), 
before a net cash outﬂ ow on acquisitions 
and disposals in the year of £122.1 million 
(2005, £29.1 million). The Rights Issue, 
announced on 16 March 2006, raised 
approximately £118 million.
Investing for Growth
We have established a strong track 
record of achieving organic growth and 
successfully ﬁ nding and integrating 
acquisitions. We invest for organic 
growth primarily through new product 
development, plant capacity expansions 
and new production equipment. In 2006, 
our own-funded expenditure on research 
and development was £20.9 million, 
predominantly in Laird Technologies, an 
increase of 31% over 2005. Research and 
development expenditure in 2006 as a 
percentage of sales for Laird Technologies, 
another of our KPIs, was 5%. Capital 
expenditure in 2006 was £22.9 million, 
an increase of 34% over 2005, and 
£10.4 million in excess of depreciation. We 
Chief Executive’ s review
believe that it is important to maintain or 
grow this organic growth investment, as 
one of the foundations of our success.
Acquisitions form a key part of our 
strategy. Acquisitions are made to allow us 
to expand our technology, market access, 
product offering and geographic spread. 
The acquisitions we have made have 
not only contributed signiﬁ cantly to the 
successful growth we have achieved over 
recent years in revenues and underlying 
proﬁ ts, but have also been value adding: 
of the seventeen acquisitions we have 
made between 2001 and 2005, the 
aggregate return on invested capital in 
2005, taking account of the effects of 
integrating the acquired businesses, is 
estimated to be 15%, well in excess of our 
pre-tax cost of capital. For the Group as a 
whole in 2006, return on capital employed, 
another of our KPIs, was 16.9%, up from 
15.6% in 2005.
In the ﬁ rst half of 2006 we undertook 
a 4 for 17 Rights Issue to raise 
approximately £118 million net of 
expenses, to help fund our continuing 
investment for growth. In 2006 we made 
six acquisitions, with an aggregate 
spend, including deferred elements, of 
approximately £110 million. So far in 2007 
we have made a further three acquisitions, 
with an aggregate spend of £82 million: 
details of these acquisitions are given in 
the sections on Laird Technologies and 
Laird Security Systems later in this Report.
Maintaining Progress
Laird has again made strong progress in 
2006, growing revenues and underlying 
proﬁ t. The Group will continue to be 
developed strategically, and is well 
positioned to make further progress 
in 2007. 
Peter Hill The Laird Group PLC 4
Laird T echnologies The Laird Group PLC    5 The Laird Group PLC 6
Strategic Development
Laird Technologies is a leader in the 
design and supply of customised 
performance critical products 
for wireless and other advanced 
electronics applications. From its 
origins as a supplier of electromagnetic 
interference (“EMI”) shielding products, 
in which field it grew to become 
the global market leader, Laird 
Technologies has been developed into 
a broad based business operating in 
specialist high growth markets, with 
an extensive range of proprietary and 
complementary products.
As well as being the global market 
leader in EMI shielding, Laird 
Technologies is now also the global 
leader in cellular antennae, and 
holds strong positions in a wide 
range of other markets, including 
mobile and infrastructure wireless 
antennae, thermal interface materials 
and thermoelectric coolers, 
mechanical actuation devices, 
power products, signal integrity 
components and complete radio 
modules and systems.
Laird Technologies supplies components 
and systems to the global electronics 
industries, including cellular handsets, 
telecommunications infrastructure, 
voice and data communications, asset 
tracking, satellite radio and information 
technology sectors, and also supplies 
the automotive, aerospace and defence, 
consumer electronics, medical and 
industrial markets. Laird Technologies 
now employs 9,000 people in 
35 facilities in 14 countries, including 
over 400 engineers and technologists. 
It has 390 patents issued with a further 
340 pending.
Strong growth in revenues and 
profits
In markets that remained buoyant in 
2006, Laird Technologies benefited 
particularly from the strong demand 
for its EMI shielding and antennae 
products for the cellular handset 
market, as well as for its products 
sold into the telecommunications 
infrastructure, wireless antennae, 
notebook PC and plasma display 
panel markets.
Revenue grew by some 43% in the 
year to £370.6 million, compared with 
£259.4 million in 2005, driven by a 
combination of organic revenue growth 
of 23% together with the effects of the 
acquisitions of Antenex, RecepTec, 
Supercool and Steward.
Underlying operating profit grew 
by some 47%, to £55.4 million, 
compared with £37.7 million in 2005, 
as a result of the organic revenue 
growth, the benefits of acquisitions 
and the increased levels of production 
from lower cost countries. Operating 
margins again increased, to 15%.
Underlying market growth 
maintained
The largest market for our products in 
2006 was cellular handsets, accounting 
for some 47% of revenues.  We 
supply a range of antennae and EMI 
shielding products to the major global 
OEMs, including Nokia, Motorola, 
Sony Ericsson and LG. Our first 
combination products, of EMI shielding 
and antennae, and EMI shielding 
and thermal interface materials, 
were shipped during the year. The 
worldwide cellular handset market 
experienced another year of strong 
Laird T echnologies
The Path to Growth
growth, driven by emerging markets’ 
demand, increasing functionality, and 
style. Industry commentators believe 
that global unit handset shipments 
increased by over 20% compared with 
2005, to nearly 1 billion units.
Laird Technologies saw continuing 
growth in the IT, telecommunications 
infrastructure and data transfer markets 
during the year, to Cisco and Huawei 
in particular, benefiting the sales of 
our EMI shielding, thermal interface 
and wireless antennae products. Our 
sales into the server and networking 
equipment markets remained buoyant, 
as well as into the notebook PC market 
where global unit shipments were 
estimated by industry commentators to 
be up some 25% compared with 2005. 
These markets accounted for some 
23% of 2006 revenues.
Demand for our products, particularly 
satellite radio antennae from the major 
OEM automotive manufacturers, 
grew in 2006, with new programmes 
also being awarded. We continue to 
develop new products, are devoting 
greater effort to the satellite radio 
consumer electronics market, and are 
starting to benefit from a new focus on 
intelligent transportation systems. This 
segment accounted for some 11% of 
2006 revenues.
In our other markets (including 
industrial, services, military and 
security, consumer and medical), we 
were successful in obtaining design 
wins into plasma display panels for 
Samsung, Panasonic and Hitachi, for 
manufacture in our plants in China, 
Central Europe and North America. 
Thermoelectric cooler sales, into the 
Laird T echnologies  The Laird Group PLC 8 9 The Laird Group PLC     The Laird Group PLC 10
industrial, aerospace and medical 
markets, grew strongly, as did sales 
of our wide range of communications 
antennae into the security, industrial, 
and voice and data transfer markets.
Laird Technologies’ percentage of total 
revenue from its top five customers 
was 53%.
Benefits of strategic acquisitions
Laird Technologies made four 
acquisitions in 2006. In March we 
acquired US-based Antenex, Inc., 
a leading rapid response supplier 
of wireless communications 
antennae for a variety of voice and 
data transmission applications, for 
£9.7 million. 
In March we also acquired RecepTec 
LLC for £54.7 million. RecepTec is 
a leader in the design, testing and 
supply of satellite digital radio, global 
positioning system and other specialist 
communications antennae to the North 
American and European automotive 
markets. With its wide range of other 
vehicular antennae products including 
FM/AM and Digital Audio Radio, 
Bluetooth and cellular, RecepTec has 
broadened Laird Technologies’ antennae 
portfolio for telematics applications.
In December, we acquired Steward, 
Inc. for £26.8 million. Steward, 
which has manufacturing facilities 
in Hermosillo, Mexico and Shunde, 
China, is an international leader in 
the field of ferrite-based products 
designed to ensure signal integrity 
in electronic cable and board level 
applications, and will form the nucleus 
of our focus on the Signal Integrity 
Products market. 
We also acquired Coolab AB in 
December for £8.9 million. Coolab, 
which trades under the Supercool brand, 
is a leading designer, manufacturer and 
supplier of thermoelectric modules and 
cooling systems for a wide variety of 
end use markets.  From its operations in 
Sweden and California, USA, Supercool 
provides additional technology, market 
access and resources with which Laird 
Technologies will develop the next 
generation of thermal management 
products and solutions required by 
customers.
We have continued to invest in Laird 
Technologies through acquisitions 
in 2007. In January we acquired 
AeroComm, Inc. for £19.1 million. 
AeroComm is forming the core of 
Laird Technologies’ focus on the 
high growth market in embedded 
wireless communications solutions. 
AeroComm’s unique and proprietary 
RF modules provide wireless 
communications in applications 
that previously communicated by 
cables and, combined with Laird 
Technologies’ antennae, shielding and 
signal integrity products, will allow 
the development of a full wireless 
systems capability.
In late February 2007 we acquired 
M2sys Co. Limited, for a cash 
consideration of £17.0 million, and 
Cushcraft, Inc., for £45.9 million. 
South Korea-based M2sys designs 
and manufactures custom products 
that enable mechanical actuation of 
handheld devices while maintaining 
electrical integrity and performance. 
M2sys joins Laird Technologies’ 
growing handheld products business 
and enables us to offer integrated 
designs and convergence of functions 
and components in future OEM 
electronic applications. 
US-based Cushcraft designs 
and manufactures advanced 
communications antennae and 
accessory products to provide 
highly engineered customised 
RF solutions for OEM light 
infrastructure applications in a 
variety of communications markets 
including WLAN, WiMax and 
RFID.  Cushcraft will be integrated 
into Laird Technologies’ Wireless 
Infrastructure Antennae business and 
will provide the combined customer 
base with the broad range of products 
needed to transmit and receive 
signals over an increasing spread of 
wireless protocols.
Laird T echnologies The Laird Group PLC    11
Operational and geographic 
development
Asia continues to be of increasing 
importance to Laird Technologies, 
both as a growing market and as a 
low cost manufacturing base, and now 
also as a design and development 
centre. In 2006, 52% of Laird 
Technologies’ revenue by destination 
was from Asia (2005, 50%) and 61% 
of revenue by origin (2005, 56%). At 
the end of 2006, Laird Technologies 
had approximately 9,000 employees, 
of whom 75% were in Asia, the 
majority in China.
In China, we opened three new plants 
in April: a new 35,000 square metre 
facility for EMI shielding and thermal 
products in Shenzhen; a new 23,000 
square metre facility in Beijing for 
the design, testing and production 
of wireless handset antennae, and 
a new expanded facility in Tianjin, to 
support the growth in the production 
of shielding products for the wireless 
handset market, as well as that of 
thermal and electrically conductive 
elastomer products and materials. A 
new, expanded facility in Shanghai, to 
support the increased output of board 
level shields for the wireless handset 
market, is expected to become 
operational in April 2007.
Elsewhere in Asia, our antennae design 
and assembly operations in Penang, 
Malaysia were relocated to larger 
premises in early 2007, with production 
of shielding and thermal products also 
being added to better support our 
customers in that region.  In 2006 we 
established antennae design, testing 
and assembly in Korea, initially serving 
Pantech/Curitel and LG.
In Europe, our UK and French facilities 
have been rationalised, our plants 
in the Czech Republic and Hungary 
reached record levels of production, 
and in Sweden we established a 
multi-product design and development 
centre to serve cellular handset 
customers including Nokia, Sony 
Ericsson and Sagem. 
In mid 2006 we established our first 
facility in Mexico, initially for antennae 
assembly. We expect to relocate to 
larger premises in 2007 and to initiate 
production there of a number of our 
other product lines. 
In late 2006 we secured government 
approval for the construction of a 
new facility in Chennai, India, with 
groundbreaking in the first quarter of 
2007, and with production scheduled 
to commence by year end. This 
production capacity, together with 
the associated design and application 
engineering which will be added, will 
enhance significantly our proximity and 
support to the increasing number of 
our key customers who are themselves 
establishing operations in this fast 
growing electronics market.
Technical development
During 2006 Laird Technologies 
continued to expand and develop 
its technology capabilities. New 
EMI shielding products included 
“EcoGreen™”, a fabric over foam 
product for plasma display panels, 
Recyclable Clean Copper™ 
fingerstock products for use in 
telecommunications and data transfer 
equipment and high flow “MaxAir™” 
shielded ventilation panels for military 
and telecommunications applications.
In antennae, new integrated antennae 
modules, including software controlled 
antennae were developed, to cope 
with the increasingly complex 
demands for multiple applications. 
Other new antennae products 
included “NanoAnt™”, a very small 
directional antennae for a wide variety 
of wireless applications, “Phantom 
Elite®” indoor and outdoor mobile 
antennae for use in public safety, 
utility vehicle and WiFi applications, 
a ceramic antenna for handheld and 
data devices that come equipped with 
Bluetooth WLAN and GPS capabilities, 
and “Ultrasphere™”, named “Product 
of the year” by Electronics Products 
magazine, a miniature, low profile 
multi-band omni-directional in-building 
wireless antenna.  The Laird Group PLC 12 The Laird Group PLC    13 The Laird Group PLC 14
We also launched a wideband 
mobile antenna for use in public 
safety and other communications 
applications, providing US government 
agencies with a single antenna with 
interoperability capability to exchange 
voice and data transmissions across 
multiple frequencies in the event of an 
emergency. An update of “Mercury™”, 
a GPS antenna with tri-band 
functionality, was also introduced, 
combining voice, data and locations 
communications for fleet tracking, theft 
protection and self-diagnostic systems. 
The first integrated module combining 
a cellular antenna and EMI board 
level shield was rolled out with Nokia, 
and a new antenna developed for the 
Microsoft Xbox gaming console.
A number of new thermal interface 
products were also developed, 
including specialist thermally 
conductive greases, the “T-Gard™” 
high performance insulator, and 
the first board level shield with 
an integrated thermal interface 
pad for 3G applications for 
Motorola. A breakthrough was 
achieved with the development 
and commercialisation of our new 
thermoelectric cooler embedded in 
Dell’s XPS desktop computer.
Laird T echnologies
Extending global leadership
Laird Technologies had another 
very successful year in 2006. It now 
possesses a unique combination of 
products and solutions covering a 
wide range of applications. Its ability 
to “bundle” products and exploit 
their technology convergence both 
differentiates Laird Technologies 
from many of its competitors and 
creates added value for customers. 
Its focus on increasing the content 
and “value-add” of its products, in 
customers’ devices and applications, 
provides both revenue growth for 
Laird Technologies and supply chain 
simplification for its customers. 
Its global footprint and its well 
established and still expanding low 
cost manufacturing base gives Laird 
Technologies the ability to best serve 
its main global OEM customers at 
competitive prices. As we focus 
increasingly on providing complete 
systems and solutions we believe that 
Laird Technologies is well placed to 
continue to extend further its global 
leadership positions. The Laird Group PLC    15 The Laird Group PLC 16
Innovative home improvement 
solutions
Laird Security Systems is a leader 
in the design, development, 
manufacture and distribution of 
innovative products and solutions. 
These aim to improve performance 
and thermal efficiency, and enhance 
protection and security, for homes 
and buildings within the UK and 
USA residential building and home 
improvement markets. Its wide range 
of products includes window and 
door hardware, composite doors, 
conservatories, windows, uPVC 
products and weather stripping seals.
In recent years the product range has 
been broadened and the business 
strengthened. Laird Security Systems 
sources an increasing proportion of 
its hardware products from its well 
established supply base in China, both 
from its own manufacturing facilities 
and from its partner suppliers.
Benefits of broad market spread
Laird Security Systems’ markets 
were mixed in 2006. In the UK the 
overall housing market improved 
somewhat during the second half of 
the year after a weaker first half, as 
did the renovation market, although 
the retail markets for our windows 
and conservatories remained weak. 
The UK social housing market, 
where Laird Security Systems is a 
major supplier of composite doors, 
continued its long term growth trend. 
Overall, Laird Security Systems’ total 
UK revenues returned to positive 
organic growth in the second half of 
2006, compared with the second half 
of 2005.
In the USA, the new build residential 
housing market suffered its well 
publicised downturn during the year, 
and this accelerated in the second 
half. In contrast, the replacement and 
renovation market showed greater 
stability. Total US revenues for Laird 
Security Systems, after positive 
organic growth in the first half of the 
year, showed a small organic decline 
in the second half of 2006 compared 
with the second half of 2005. 
Against this backdrop, Laird Security 
Systems demonstrated its resilience 
and delivered a very respectable 
performance in 2006, with revenue up 
3% to £237.7 million in the year (2005, 
£230.9 million). Organic revenue 
growth was slightly negative for Laird 
Security Systems as a whole, with a 
year-on-year organic decline of 4% in 
the UK and 3% in the USA.
UK revenue from continuing 
businesses in 2006 was approximately 
£125 million. Of this, 34% represented 
window hardware, 21% composite 
doors, 24% door hardware, 17% 
windows and conservatories and 
3% seals.
US revenue in 2006 was approximately 
£108 million. Of this, 53% represented 
window hardware, 15% seals, 14% 
door hardware and 17% uPVC 
extrusions.
Laird Security Systems was broadly 
able to maintain underlying profits 
despite its mixed markets and the 
increases in commodity prices. 
Underlying operating profits for 2006 
were £27.8 million, compared with 
Laird Security Systems
Support and Innovation
£28.1 million in 2005. Operating margin 
in 2006 was 12%.
Commodity prices remained volatile 
overall. Through carefully managing the 
relationship between input and output 
pricing, Laird Security Systems was 
able to contain fully the adverse effect 
of higher commodity prices in the year.
Portfolio repositioning
In March 2006 Laird Security Systems 
enhanced its growing position in the 
US building products market with the 
acquisition of Bandlock Corporation in 
California for £10.4 million. Bandlock, 
a supplier of an extensive range of 
PVC extrusions, supplements Security 
Systems’ existing extrusion business 
in the central US, while enhancing its 
critical mass on the West Coast.
March also saw the acquisition of 
Balance UK, for £3.3 million. Balance 
supplies a range of heavy duty window 
balances used in the manufacture of 
vertically sliding windows for a growing 
niche segment of the UK market. 
These heavy duty balances also 
provide the potential for Laird Security 
Systems to enter the commercial 
window market, and fill its remaining 
product gap in the US, allowing it 
to participate in the replacement 
of traditional windows with heavier, 
hurricane-proof ones along the eastern 
US seaboard.
Operational and geographic 
development
In Laird Security Systems’ UK 
window hardware and components 
businesses, a headcount reduction of 
75 took place in the first half of 2006, 
Laird Security Systems The Laird Group PLC    17
following a reduction of some 300, or 
35% of the combined total, in 2005. 
Both of these actions benefited the 
2006 results. Emphasis has now been 
switched to product development and 
new account targeting, with benefits 
expected in 2007 and 2008. At Laird 
Lifestyle Products, manufacturing 
operations were consolidated further, 
to improve efficiencies and allow a 
greater emphasis on marketing and 
product positioning. 
In the UK composite door business, 
the three sites resulting from 
acquisitions in this sector were 
consolidated into two in the first 
quarter of 2006, with a capacity 
expansion at one of the two facilities 
being completed at the end of 
the first quarter of 2006. These 
actions, together with Laird Security 
Systems’ technical capabilities and 
broad product range, should position 
the UK business to maintain its return 
to growth.
In the USA, the window hardware, 
door hardware, weather seals and 
uPVC extrusions businesses all had a 
good first half, with each product line 
showing organic growth. Although 
the revenues from these businesses 
declined year-on-year in the second 
half, action was swiftly taken to protect 
operating margins, with personnel 
reductions of 135 or 12% of the total.
The long term outlook for the US 
window and door market remains 
positive, driven by favourable 
demographics, job creation and 
mobility, and expected sustainable 
economic growth. The replacement 
cycle lags considerably that of the 
UK, implying long term growth in that 
sector. Although market conditions are 
now more competitive, Laird Security 
Systems expects to benefit from new 
product introductions, its industry 
leading levels of customer service, and 
market share gains both directly and 
through the continuing consolidation of 
its customer base.
Sales of products manufactured in 
Asia by Laird Security Systems or its 
partner suppliers grew by over 40% in 
2006, on top of an increase of 15% in 
2005. 30% of Laird Security Systems’ 
hardware sales in 2006 were sourced 
from Asia, compared with 22% in 
2005. Its own facilities in Ningbo, 
China, were expanded during the year, 
while sourcing from partner suppliers 
also grew; these suppliers are 
integrated into Laird Security Systems’ 
supply chain, which provides them 
with engineering expertise, specialised 
investment and quality control.
Innovation
Laird Security Systems maintained 
its focus on product innovation 
and development, and continued 
to develop its intellectual property 
portfolio. There were benefits in 
2006 from the Springback sealing 
product range introduced during 
2005, innovative new window balance 
designs, and an increasing range 
of multipoint locks. A new door seal 
product has been developed for the 
US market, as has its first ever range 
of casement window hardware, a 
significant US market segment where 
Laird Security Systems currently has 
minimal sales. In the UK, the composite 
doors business will be launching a new 
glass-reinforced-plastic faced door in 
2007, replacing its current product with 
one which has lower production costs 
but with a higher specification. Laird 
Security Systems continues with its 
product innovation and new designs, 
both to differentiate itself from its 
competitors and to provide enhanced 
functionality for its customers.
Laird Security Systems is targeting 
its product development to take 
advantage of three macro trends which 
it sees emerging over the next few 
years. The first is more demanding 
construction standards in North 
America, to reduce hurricane damage. 
The second is higher security allied 
to ease of use, including electronic 
access controls, which is seen to be 
particularly applicable as demographic 
trends move towards an increasingly 
ageing population. The third is the 
expected trend towards even greater 
insulation and thermal efficiency, as 
governments and consumers adjust to 
higher energy prices.
Development of the strategy
Laird Security Systems has continued 
to provide innovative local solutions 
to its customers allied to what are 
believed to be industry leading service 
levels on a global basis, underpinned 
by the ongoing expansion of the low 
cost engineering and manufacturing 
capability in Asia. Although the year-
on-year market decline in 2007 in 
the US may not be fully offset by the 
better conditions expected in the 
UK, within the division there is now a 
much broader presence in a range of 
markets, products and sales channels, 
which should provide considerable 
resilience during 2007.
