 The Laird Group PLC 2
Overview
Laird today is a higher growth, increasingly 
proﬁ table company which remains driven 
by the overriding objective of creating and 
growing shareholder value. 2006 saw 
an acceleration of the momentum Laird 
has established in recent years. Further 
progress has been made against our 
strategic objectives of focusing on higher 
growth markets, obtaining a competitive 
edge through technology and customer 
service, allied to a well established and 
expanding low cost manufacturing base.
Delivery of Proﬁ table Growth
2006 saw further good progress made by 
the Group. We strengthened and developed 
both our market leading divisions, Laird 
T echnologies and Laird Security Systems, 
during the year and have again delivered 
positive organic revenue growth together 
with good growth in underlying proﬁ ts and 
earnings. Group underlying proﬁ ts before tax 
were £73.3 million in 2006, up 33% on the 
£55.1 million reported in 2005.  Earnings per 
share on a similar basis were 31.7 pence, up 
16% on the 27.3 pence in 2005. 
Continuing Dividend Growth
The Board’s dividend policy is to increase 
returns to shareholders progressively 
over time, reﬂ ecting both the underlying 
proﬁ tability of the Group and the cash 
requirements of the business. The 
Board is recommending a ﬁ nal dividend 
of 6.95 pence per share, payable 
to shareholders in respect of their 
shareholdings recorded on the register as 
at 25 May 2007, subject to approval at 
the 2007 Annual General Meeting. This 
represents a total dividend for the year 
of 10.3 pence per share, compared with 
9.56 pence per share for 2005 (restated 
for the bonus element of the Rights Issue), 
and represents an increase year-on-year 
of 8%.
Board Development
Geoff Drabble, an Executive Director of 
The Laird Group and Managing Director 
of Laird Security Systems, left the Group 
at the end of September to become Chief 
Executive of another UK public company.
The Board made two appointments in 
2006; Professor Michael Kelly joined as 
a non-executive director on 1 July 2006 
and later in the year Sir Christopher 
Hum, KCMG, was also appointed a 
non-executive director. With these two 
appointments, the Board is well equipped 
to oversee the Group’s continued growth 
and development.
Sir Geoffrey Owen and John McDowall, 
OBE, both retired as non-executive 
directors at the end of the year. 
John McDowall has been succeeded as 
Senior Independent non-executive director 
by Anthony Reading, MBE. As Chairman, 
I would like to thank Geoffrey and John for 
their valuable service over many years 
and their extensive contribution both to 
the Board and to the development of 
The Laird Group.
Our Employees
2006’s achievements would not have been 
possible were it not for the hard work 
and determination of our 11,500 strong 
international team. Their loyal commitment 
and enthusiasm is an extremely valuable 
asset in realising the Group’s strategy 
and continuing its successful growth, 
and to each of them I extend the Board’s 
wholehearted thanks.
Corporate Social Responsibility
The Board recognises the need for Group 
businesses to behave ethically and 
responsibly in the different locations and 
environments in which they operate and 
the Board is, therefore, committed to a 
Chairman’ s statement
programme of continuous improvement 
in all areas of its corporate responsibility. 
2006 was another year of progress in our 
overall performance in the areas of health, 
safety and environmental stewardship.  
The Group successfully completed its 
programme of ISO 14001 accreditation 
for all manufacturing businesses, 
with the exception of certain recent 
acquisitions, which are targeted to achieve 
accreditation during 2007. In addition, 
ten ISO 14001 accredited manufacturing 
sites successfully integrated the British 
Standards Occupational health and safety 
speciﬁ cation, OHSAS 18001, providing an 
integrated Health, Safety & Environmental 
management system. The Group aims 
to complete this integration across the 
remaining ISO 14001 registered sites in 
2007. A review of the Group’s policies and 
performance in this key area is to be found 
in the Corporate Social Responsibility 
section of this Report.
Maintaining the Momentum of the 
Group
Laird had another excellent year in 2006, 
again delivering good growth in revenue 
and underlying proﬁ t. The strategic 
decisions which were made to continue 
to focus the Group, together with the 
investments that have been made to 
strengthen and develop it and to broaden 
its product and market spread, have again 
allowed Laird to progress strongly. We 
will continue to implement this strategy, 
and we are conﬁ dent that Laird will make 
further good progress in 2007.
Nigel Keen
