 The Laird Group PLC    03   
Strategy
Over recent years Laird has been transformed from  
a diversified industrial group into a focused 
electronics and technology company. We now serve 
specialist high growth markets with a broad set 
of complementary proprietary products, obtaining 
a competitive edge through technology and 
customer service allied to a well established, and 
still expanding, low cost manufacturing base. The 
divestment of Laird Security Systems in April 2007 
was a key part of this strategy.
Continuing	Dividend	Growth
The Board’s dividend policy is to increase returns 
to shareholders progressively over time, reflecting 
both the underlying profitability of the Company 
and the cash requirements of the business. In line 
with this policy, the Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 7.88 pence per share. This represents a 
total dividend for the year of 11.5 pence per share, 
an increase of 12% compared with the 10.3 pence 
per share for 2006. This is in addition to the special 
dividend of 50 pence per share paid in June 2007.
Corporate	and	Social	Responsibility
As a member of the FTSE4Good index, Laird 
recognises the need to behave as a good corporate 
citizen and remains committed to a programme of 
continuous improvement in all areas of corporate 
responsibility. From 2008 Laird will begin adopting 
the Electronics Industry Code of Conduct (EICC), 
a code of best practice adopted by some of the 
world’s major electronics brands and their suppliers 
covering key areas of social responsibility. Further 
details of the Group’s corporate responsibility 
activities are available in the Corporate Social 
Responsibility section of this report.
The	Board
Martin Rapp, an executive director of The Laird Group, 
will be appointed Managing Director with effect from 
31 March 2008.
In order to better reflect our new focus, approval will  
be sought at the Annual General Meeting to change  
the name of The Laird Group Public Limited Company  
to Laird PLC.
Our	Employees
Laird has a skilled and dedicated 14,500 strong 
international workforce. The enterprise and 
enthusiasm of our people is central to the realisation 
of our strategy and our continued success. On behalf 
of the Board I would like to congratulate them on 
their achievements in 2007 and thank them for their 
hard work and loyal support.
Maintaining	the	Momentum
Laird had an outstanding year in 2007. The 
divestment of the Security Systems Division in April 
2007 completed the transformation of Laird into a 
focused electronics and technology company and 
allowed the return of approximately £100 million 
to shareholders in June 2007. Our continuing 
technology based business delivered excellent 
growth in both revenue and operating profits, while 
total underlying profit before tax for Laird was 
again a record. 2007 ended strongly and 2008 has 
begun well, and we are confident of making further 
good progress during the year. The strength of our 
business, together with the capabilities of our people 
give us the ability to deliver value through innovation.
Chairman’s statement
“ Laird had an outstanding 
year in 2007 .”
Nigel	Keen
