 04    The Laird Group PLC
We design, develop and supply the technology that 
allows people, organisations and electronic devices 
to connect effectively and efficiently, locally and 
globally – key requirements in today’s increasingly 
connected world.
Results
Laird has produced another set of strong results in  
2007. Revenue from our continuing business, Laird  
Technologies, was £564.3 million in 2007, up 52%  
(2006, £370.6 million), driven by continuing market  
growth, increased customer demand for our products,  
market share gains, new product applications and 
the benefits from acquisitions. Organic revenue 
growth, one of our Key Performance Indicators 
(KPIs), was 34%.
Underlying profit before tax from continuing 
operations was £72.4 million in 2007, up 59% (2006, 
£45.5 million), helped by a further expansion of our  
low cost manufacturing base. Profit growth at constant  
exchange rates was 69%. Operating margin for the 
year (one of our KPIs) was 14.2% (2006, 14.9%). The 
small reduction was due to the effects of acquisitions 
and a change in product mix.
Statutory profit before tax from continuing operations 
in 2007, after exceptional items, the amortisation 
of acquired intangibles, the gain or loss on the 
disposal of businesses and the fair valuing of financial 
instruments, was 30% higher at £51.5 million (2006, 
£39.6 million). 
Total underlying profit before tax in 2007, including four 
months’ contribution from Security Systems prior to 
its divestment, was £76.8 million (2006, £73.3 million), 
with the overall growth of 5% still being achieved 
despite the divestment (Security Systems’ underlying 
profit was £23.4 million less in 2007 compared with 
2006) and the adverse effects of currency movements. 
The effect of currency movements has been to reduce 
total underlying profit in the year by £5.1 million; at 
constant exchange rates total underlying profit would 
have been 12% higher than in 2006.
Underlying earnings per share from continuing 
operations increased by 60% to 33.1 pence (2006, 
20.7 pence). Total underlying earnings per share in 
2007 were 34.9 pence (2006, 31.7 pence).
Divestment	of	Security	Systems
The Security Systems Division was divested 
on 27 April 2007, for a total consideration of 
£242.5 million. Underlying operating profit from 
Security Systems, prior to its divestment, was 
£4.4 million (2006, £27.8 million). Shareholder value 
will continue to be increased by the redeployment 
of capital from Security Systems into our successful 
and fast expanding Laird Technologies business. 
Shareholders participated in the crystallisation of 
value realised by the disposal, through a return of 
capital of approximately £100 million in June 2007.
Focusing	on	Laird	Technologies
Laird Technologies is the global leader in the design 
and supply of components that reduce or prevent 
interference both within and between electronic 
devices, and antennae for mobile handsets. We also 
provide a variety of other communications antennae, 
a wide range of thermal management products, and 
complete wireless modules and systems.
Chief Executive’s review
Peter	Hill The Laird Group PLC    05   
“ Laird is a leader in the  
design and supply of 
customised, performance  
critical products and  
systems for wireless  
and other advanced  
electronic applications; 
Technology for a  
connected world.”
We supply components and systems to high 
growth global electronics markets, including cellular 
handsets, telecommunications infrastructure, voice 
and data communications, asset tracking, satellite 
radio and information technology sectors, and also 
supply the automotive, aerospace and defence, 
consumer electronics, medical and industrial markets.
Higher speed, power and performance of 
electronic devices, as well as the increasing trend 
to wireless connectivity, drive an increasing need 
for our products and solutions. Our strategy over 
recent years has been to broaden our technology 
capabilities such that we are now able to offer 
a unique range of products and solutions. This 
also gives us access to new, high growth market 
segments, the ability to combine products and 
exploit technology convergence and to increase 
the content of our offering in individual electronic 
devices. We are developing our radio frequency 
(“RF”) systems capability, allowing us to address an 
increasingly high growth market.
We strive for leadership in our chosen markets, 
working closely with our global and local OEM 
customers in design and development, supporting 
them in their multiple locations based on our own 
global footprint of design, engineering, manufacturing 
and sales infrastructure. We are a leader in the 
design and supply of customised performance 
critical products and systems for wireless and other 
advanced electronics applications; we provide 
technology for an increasingly connected world. 00    007 Annual Report The Laird Group PLC    07   
Mobile Phone Handsets
In 2007, global handset shipments were some 
1,140 million, up some 16% over 2006; during the 
past five years, handset shipments have almost 
tripled, with a 22% average annual growth rate. 
China continues to be an important driver of handset  
sales and now boasts the world’s largest mobile 
subscriber base at over 500 million users. India shows  
even more potential than China. India is likely to 
overtake the USA as the world’s second largest 
mobile phone market in 2008; currently, over 
7 million new subscribers a month sign up, and 
within five years the user base promises to overtake 
China itself. 
Worldwide, almost one third of existing subscribers  
purchase a new mobile phone every year, either  
because their existing one was lost, stolen or broken, is 
out of style, or lacks the latest features. Mobile phones  
have become fashion accessories and personal 
items that for many need to be updated regularly.
New subscribers tend to buy voice-only phones, 
but when buying replacement phones they tend to 
choose more features, including cameras, Bluetooth, 
GPS, MP3 and stereo speakers. This trend is 
observable in China, India and emerging economies. 
Feature-rich mobile phones are more complex and 
require more, and more advanced, components.
Japan leads the way in new mobile phone features  
and these, including “electronic wallets” and mobile  
TV, are often incorporated into mobile phones  
sold elsewhere, helping to further drive the 
replacement market.
Antenna control circuitry production utilising state-of-the-art 
component placement equipment at Laird Technologies’ new 
clean room in Beijing, China.
0
400
800
1,200
1,600
2,000
2006
Developing Source: Gartner, Dec 2007
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
Developed
Asia/Pacific
Unit shipments (millions)
HANDSET SHIPMENTS 
MARKETS:  The Laird Group PLC    09
IT and Datacomm
The IT and Datacomm segment has driven the 
electronics industry for most of its history. It includes 
maturing sub-segments such as desktop PCs, as 
well as higher growth segments such as servers, 
Notebook PCs, internet routers and switches and  
telecommunication infrastructure, together with  
emerging fast growing niches such as Ultra 
Mobile PCs. 
The desktop market is forecast to grow in unit terms 
by some 5% annually over the next several years, 
while the Notebook PC and Ultra Mobile PC should 
deliver stronger unit growth, averaging 17% and over 
50%, respectively. Notebook growth is likely to be 
further driven by new, low-cost portable designs.
Computing has evolved from the operation of 
applications resident on the PC to a networked 
communications portal, communicating with others 
and utilising content stored on the network. The 
number of devices that can fulfil the role of a network 
portal has also grown, including mobile phones, 
automobiles, home appliances, set-top boxes, and 
TVs, as well as PCs. 
The growing importance of networked communications 
and distributed digital content has boosted the 
outlook for networking and storage equipment. The 
server market is expected to show continuing growth 
over the next five years, as is that for internet routers 
and switches, driven by tremendous increases in 
data storage and exchange, as well as Voice over 
Internet Protocols. Video delivery over the network, 
still in its early days, has the opportunity to further 
drive this segment.
Laird Technologies’ products enable high speed digital 
communications essential to broadband internet access, 
streaming video, gaming and other advanced communications 
applications.
500
Unit shipments (millions)
2006
400
300
200
100
Server Source: Gartner Dataquest, Dec 2007
0
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
Notebook
Desktop
PC/NOTEBOOK SHIPMENTS
MARKETS:  The Laird Group PLC    11   
Transportation
Over recent years, the electronics content per vehicle 
has increased remarkably, driven by the incorporation 
of such advanced features as antilock braking, 
anti-collision systems, airbags, advanced audio and 
audiovisual systems, tyre pressure monitoring, and 
parking assist cameras. 
The faster growing portions of this market are 
focused directly on the consumer and include 
systems enabled by electronics including heating 
and cooling, and devices that would be classified 
as consumer electronics if they were not installed 
in an automobile, such as GPS, Bluetooth, DVD 
entertainment and Satellite Digital Radio. These 
consumer focused sub-segments are expected 
to lead the overall growth of the automotive 
electronic market.
Another area of growth is in Intelligent Transportation 
Systems, both within the vehicle itself with features 
such as lane departure warning and adaptive 
cruise control, and where the vehicle itself interacts 
with a transport network or is linked to asset 
tracking systems for insurance, security or fleet 
management purposes.
The recent rise in oil prices has broadened the 
appeal of green alternatives which boost the 
electronics content per vehicle, including clean 
diesels, cylinder deactivation, and hybrid vehicles, 
whose popularity is growing strongly within the 
Japanese and American markets.
The next frontier in automotive electronics is likely to 
be networked communications. While such networks 
are currently implemented on a limited basis, the 
development of broadband and WiFi access is likely 
to reach critical mass over the next five years.
Many leading edge vehicle communication systems including 
satellite radio, tracking, security and in-vehicle safety systems 
feature products designed and produced by Laird Technologies.
9,000
6,000
3,000
12,000
2006
Other Source: Telematics 
Research Group, 
Oct 2007
0
2007
2008
2009
2010
SATELLITE RADIO SHIPMENTS
Americas
Unit shipments (’000s)
MARKETS:  The Laird Group PLC    13   
Consumer Electronics
Over the last ten years the consumer has emerged 
as a key driver of the electronics industry. The market 
includes an array of devices, including Audio (MP3 
players, CD players, digital radios), Video (TVs, 
DVDs, portable video players), Cameras (digital still 
cameras, digital camcorders), and Game Systems. 
Over the next five years the consumer electronics 
market is expected to continue to grow strongly in 
unit terms.
Flat panel displays have been one of the fastest 
growing segments of the electronics industry. Plasma 
screens, with unit shipment growth running at over 
15% annually, have traditionally dominated the 
larger screen market, while liquid crystal displays 
are growing at an even faster rate of over 30% 
annually. The existence of multiple competing display 
technologies (LCD, plasma, micro displays) and 
investments by the LCD panel makers, have made 
prices more competitive, enabling strong growth in 
unit shipments and average panel sizes. 
Another high growth area has been Game Systems, 
with Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo all developing and 
bringing to market new products with increasingly 
advanced features.
The continued growth of new consumers in emerging 
markets such as China and India is helping to drive 
the consumer electronics market. In emerging 
economies, electronics consumption per capita 
climbs more quickly than does GDP , with gains in 
purchasing power driving the purchase of consumer 
devices; this is expected to sustain the consumer 
electronics market in future years.
Laird Technologies’ products help remove heat and electronically 
protect flat-panel displays and other consumer electronics devices.
2006
PDP displays Source: iSuppli, Dec 2007
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
LCD displays
250
Unit shipments (millions)
200
150
100
50
0
FLAT SCREEN TV SHIPMENTS
MARKETS:  The Laird Group PLC    15   
Industrial and Instrumentation
The industrial and instrumentation market is one 
of the most fragmented segments of the overall 
electronics industry. The market is diverse, with many 
applications for increasingly advanced electronics 
devices and systems.
A significant and growing industrial electronics end-
market is factory automation equipment, including 
sensing and controls. The continued growth of 
manufacturing capacity and capabilities in countries 
such as China, India, and Vietnam will sustain the 
capital equipment supply chain. 
Networked communications are becoming more 
prevalent in the industrial electronics sector, 
principally in the form of machine-to-machine (“M2M”) 
communications with the transfer of data for control, 
measurement and display purposes. Growing 
applications include electronic point of sale (“EPoS”) 
remote monitoring, radio frequency identification 
(“RFID”), building automation, aerospace electronics, 
and remotely operated infrastructure applications 
including lighting and security. Applications for 
wireless modules also include a growing need within 
the medical and healthcare sectors.
Another growing segment of the industrial electronics 
market is related to alternative energy and energy 
conservation. Photovoltaics, and wind power with 
associated control electronics, have grown at 
average rates exceeding 25% over the past five 
years and this growth is forecast to continue in the 
coming years. 
High brightness Light Emitting Diodes (“LEDs”) are 
also poised to emerge as a major industrial electronics 
application over the next several years. Already widely 
used in automotive and display applications, the use 
of high brightness LEDs in industrial applications is  
expected to grow strongly driven by improving 
economics as well as size and lifestyle considerations.
Laird Technologies’ products are critical to the performance of a 
broad range of applications including medical devices, industrial 
process controllers, energy generation systems and industrial 
diagnostic equipment.
250
200
150
50
100
300
2006
Cellular Source: Various, 2007
0
2007
2008
2009
2010
WIRELESS MODULE M2M SHIPMENTS
Non-cellular
Unit shipments (millions)
2011
MARKETS:  We design, develop and supply 
components and systems that 
provide and enhance connectivity, 
helping people and machines to 
communicate better and faster by 
voice or with data.
This Division comprises our 
cellular and handheld antennae 
products, where we are the global 
market leader, our telematics and 
infrastructure antennae products, 
where we are the market leader in 
North America, and our nascent 
wireless systems activities. The  
Division has integrated the capabilities  
of Centurion Wireless Technologies 
acquired in 2004, RecepTec and 
Antenex (2006), AeroComm and 
Cushcraft (2007) and Ezurio (2008).
The Laird Group PLC    17
Antenna & Wireless  
Systems Division
OPERATING REVIEW 18    The Laird Group PLC
We supply a broad range of markets:-
Mobile Phone Handsets
Cellular and complementary antennae and antennae 
sub-assemblies and modules, and power products, 
for the mobile phone and wireless portable device 
industry.
IT and Datacomm
Wireless broadband infrastructure antennae for 
Wireless Local Area Networks (“WLAN”), Wireless 
Fidelity (“WiFi”), World Interoperability for Microwave 
Access (“WiMax”), Radio Frequency Identification 
(“RFID”) and Wireless Internet Service Providers 
(“WISP”) applications.
Automotive and Transportation
Antennae solutions, including Satellite Digital Audio 
Radio (“SDAR”), Global Positioning System (“GPS”), 
cellular, Bluetooth and analogue and digital terrestrial 
radio for automotive OEMs and other vehicle and 
marine applications, including asset tracking and 
transportation systems management.
Industrial and Instrumentation
External and embedded antennae systems, Radio 
Frequency (“RF”) modules and power products for 
wireless devices, wireless infrastructure and Machine 
to Machine (“M2M”) applications, serving a wide 
variety of end user markets. 
The excellence in what we do, coupled with the 
benefits of our leading market and technology 
positions were reflected in the Division’s strong 
results in 2007, with revenues growing by almost 
50% to £257.5 million and underlying operating profit 
by 54% to £30.0 million.
Organic revenue growth for the Division in the year 
was 33%, driven predominantly by exceptionally 
Antenna	&	Wireless	Systems
Year ended 2007 2006 Growth
31 December	 £m £m
Revenue	 257.5 173.1 49%
Underlying operating profit	 30.0 19.5 54%
Return on sales	 11.7% 11.3% 
AWS 2007 REVENUE BY MARKET SEGMENT
Handsets
IT/Datacomm
Transportation
Industrial and Instrumentation
Other
AWS 2007 REVENUE BY PRODUCT GROUP
Telematics Wireless systems
Mobile Antenna 
systems
Infrastructure 
Antenna systems  The Laird Group PLC    19   
strong growth in our shipments of cellular antennae 
modules and sub-assemblies. These have higher 
average selling prices as a result of both the technical 
complexity of the antennae and their combination 
with cameras, acoustic boxes and stereophonic 
loudspeakers, and other bought in components. 
Growth of modules and sub-assemblies is expected 
to be less in 2008, with organic growth overall 
expected to return to more normal levels.
The Division’s average percentage margin increased 
slightly in the year, with the positive “mix” effect 
of acquisitions and economies of scale more 
than offsetting the greater proportion of bought 
in components in the modules, where we add 
value by offering integrated design, manufacturing 
and testing of the complete module, which has a 
lower percentage return on sales due to the higher 
proportion of bought-in components.
In 2007 we also benefited in handset antennae from 
our positions on both high volume handsets and on 
the lower volume, but higher functionality models 
where our content is greater. We maintained our 
strong position with the world’s leading handset 
company, Nokia, grew our antennae market share 
with Motorola, Sony Ericsson and LG, and started 
selling to the major Taiwanese Original Design 
Manufacturers (“ODMs”). We shipped approximately 
260 million handset antennae units, including 
complementary antennae, up 25% compared 
with 2006.
In telematics, we saw good growth in our shipments 
to our major automotive customers, particularly 
in North America. We continued to increase the 
penetration of our antennae in a flat vehicle market, 
while reducing our presence as planned in the 
low margin consumer retrofit segment.
We also saw growth from our communications 
and infrastructure antennae in North America, and 
our presence in this market was bolstered by our 
acquisition of Cushcraft in February 2007. We are 
adding specialist engineers to our existing sales force 
in Europe and Asia, to allow us to begin selling into 
those markets.
Our wireless systems activity, where we supply fully 
functioning wireless modules and which was initiated 
with the acquisition of AeroComm in January 2007, 
was enhanced further with the acquisition of Ezurio 
in February 2008. Together, these acquisitions give 
us an initial foothold in the fast growing wireless M2M 
sectors such as asset management, healthcare, 
telematics, security and electronic point of sale. We 
see excellent potential in this area and expect to 
develop our presence further.
Overall, our ambition is to be the leader in the 
industrial, consumer and automotive segments of 
antennae and wireless communications technology, 
geographically diversified and with a wide spread of 
customers and end user markets, allowing people, 
organisations and electronic devices to communicate 
better and more effectively.  The Laird Group PLC    1
Electronic Components  
& Systems Division
We design, develop and supply 
throughout the world the high 
precision, performance critical 
components and systems that make 
electronic devices function and 
connect effectively, whether for voice 
or visual communication or for high 
quality data storage and transmission.
This Division designs, manufactures 
and markets our Electromagnetic 
Interference (“EMI”) shielding products,  
where we are the global market leader,  
together with our signal integrity and  
thermal management products; these  
provide vital protection for a wide 
range of electronic devices, allowing 
them to function and connect 
effectively. In early 2007 we entered 
the electromechanical actuation device  
business with the acquisition of 
M2sys in Korea, growing it rapidly 
during the year to become the market  
leader in the design and supply of 
these devices, which improve the 
physical functionality and versatility of 
mobile phone handsets.
OPERATING REVIEW     The Laird Group PLC
We supply a broad range of markets:-
Mobile Phone Handsets
Board level and other EMI shielding, thermal 
management products, electromechanical actuation 
devices, and a range of ancillary electronic contacts 
and components for mobile handsets and other 
portable devices.
IT and Datacomm
Multiple components for network infrastructure 
equipment, including internet routers, switches, 
telecommunication base stations, and infrastructure 
antennae systems, plus a wide range of electronic, 
mechanical and wireless products for the personal 
and notebook computer, server and printer industries.
Automotive and Transportation
System and components for critical electronic 
systems such as collision avoidance, vehicle safety 
systems, adaptive cruise control, power steering and 
communications, as well as for comfort features such 
as climate control systems.
Consumer
EMI, thermal and signal integrity products for 
subsystems within flat screen TVs, game consoles 
and accessories.
Industrial and Instrumentation
EMI and thermal management solutions for motor 
controls, LED lighting, power systems, uninterruptible 
power supplies, medical diagnostic and clinical 
chemistry devices and surgical equipment, together 
with a limited number of military applications.
The benefits of our leading market and technology 
positions, together with our global footprint, were 
also reflected in this Division’s results in 2007, 
with revenues growing by 55% to £306.8 million 
and underlying operating profit by nearly 40% to 
£50.0 million.
Electronic	Components	&	Systems
Year ended 2007 2006 Growth
31 December	 £m £m
Revenue	 306.8 197.5 55%
Underlying operating profit	 50.0 35.9 39%
Return on sales	 16.3% 18.2% 
ECS 2007 REVENUE BY MARKET SEGMENT
Handsets
IT/Datacomm
Transportation
Consumer
Industrial and Instrumentation
Other
ECS 2007 REVENUE BY PRODUCT GROUP
EMI Thermal
Actuation products Signal Integrity The Laird Group PLC    3   
Organic revenue growth for this Division was 35%,  
driven predominantly by exceptionally high year-on-year  
growth in sales of our actuation devices. We do not 
expect the same level of growth in this area in 2008, 
with organic growth overall expected to return to 
more normal levels.
Although the Division’s percentage return on sales 
declined in 2007 this was due to two specific factors. 
One was the “mix” effect of acquisitions, which had 
lower margins than the Division’s average (although 
we would expect these margins to increase over 
time under our ownership). The other was the greater 
than normal growth in sales of our high specification 
actuation devices which have a higher materials 
content (and, therefore, lower average percentage 
margins) than the rest of the Division’s products.
As well as the excellent progress seen in actuation 
products during the year, we also saw continuing 
strong growth for our EMI and thermal interface 
products into the notebook PC market, particularly 
with Dell, HP and Apple. We continued to see 
buoyant sales into the server, networking equipment 
and telecommunications base station markets, 
particularly to Cisco, Huawei, Alcatel, ZTE, Motorola, 
Ericsson and HP , for our EMI shielding, thermal 
interface and signal integrity products.
Our EMI board level shielding sales into the handset 
market, while still delivering double digit organic 
growth, were held back compared with previous 
years by a reduction in demand from one of our 
customers as a result of its own sales decline. 
However, our board level shielding penetration 
increased at Sony Ericsson and we achieved our first 
sales of these products to Samsung.
Our EMI shielding sales into the flat screen TV market,  
predominantly to Panasonic, Samsung, Hitachi and 
Philips, continued to go well, while new products 
are being used in the Microsoft Xbox and the Sony 
Playstation PS3. EMI shielding sales into the medical 
and instrumentation markets, and thermoelectric 
cooler sales into the industrial, automotive, aerospace  
and medical markets have also remained buoyant.
Our largely customised, high precision products and 
systems are critical in maintaining and enhancing 
the integrity and performance of our customers’ 
electronic devices. We expect that the increasing 
challenges for our customers of conducted and 
radiated EMI and of heat generation, as the power, 
speed and performance of devices increases, will  
continue to drive demand for this Division’s products,  
while changing form factors in mobile phone handsets  
should continue to drive increasing demand for our 
actuation products. We aim to be the market leader 
in all of these areas, and increasingly to promote 
and exploit technology and product convergence 
between our two Divisions. 4    The Laird Group PLC
Leading Edge Technologies
Our aim is to make ourselves indispensable to our 
customers through delivering technology based 
solutions, by maintaining our technology leadership.
Technology	Focus
We focus our technology development on the 
following key areas:-
Antennae design, simulation and optimisation 
capability; this is at the heart of our competitive 
advantage in the communications marketplace.
Radiated and conducted EMI suppression 
technology enabling proper system function in 
today’s electrically noisy environments.
Satellite data reception and processing technology, 
enabling satellite radio, GPS and multi-band signal 
reception and processing.
Active wireless systems, firmware and hardware 
development, for radio modules and assemblies.
Thermoelectric device and subsystem technology, 
enabling us to build industry leading thermal 
management modules and assemblies.
Thermally conductive materials technology, 
performance critical components and solutions that 
allow our customers’ devices to function effectively.
Strong	Growth	in	Research	and		
Development	Investment
Our investment in research and development in 
2007 was £25.0 million, up 26% on 2006 and was 
approximately 4.5% of revenues. Over half our spend 
is on new development programmes, including 
redesigns for product extensions, targeted at 
near term customer development platforms and
Laird Technologies’ Corporate Research Laboratory in Bangalore, 
India will focus on fundamental material science that will provide 
breakthrough, new products.
Laird Technologies’ Artificial 
Intelligence Optimiser provides 
the highest performance 
antenna design solution at 
significantly reduced time and 
development cost.
OPERATING REVIEW applications. Nearly one quarter of the spend is in 
product innovation for future platforms which result 
in completely new product families; the remaining 
spend is on advanced technical research, offering 
the greatest future potential. At the end of 2007 we 
employed 660 qualified engineers and technologists, 
one quarter of whom had masters’ degrees 
or doctorates.
Building	our	Intellectual	Property	Portfolio
The ownership of patents, trade secrets and 
trademarks are all forms of intellectual property 
protection that we utilise, helping us to maintain our 
technology leadership positions. In 2007, 121 new 
patents were granted, more than double the number 
granted in 2006, the growth being illustrative of 
our increasing focus on protecting the intellectual 
property we create. By the end of 2007 we possessed 
610 issued patents with a further 506 pending.
Product	Design	Centre	Expansion
We are establishing a network of engineering 
centres to support the product design needs of our 
customers. These centres are strategically located 
around the world close to our customer’s design 
facilities and serve the product design needs of the 
regions in which they are located. These new design 
centres will have the capability to design all Laird 
Technologies’ products under one roof, achieving 
design synergy across our product lines and enabling 
us to integrate the full range of our product offering to 
our customers.
Corporate	Research	Laboratory	Established
In December 2007 we opened our new Corporate 
Research Laboratory in Bangalore, India providing 
an advanced technology research capability as well 
as “horizon scanning” for potential new technology 
opportunities and threats.
Exploiting	Product	Convergence
We are uniquely positioned to exploit our broad 
range of products and technologies to deliver 
multifunctional value to our customers. We do this in 
a number of different ways:-
Technology convergence: Bringing together products 
where the technical design characteristics are 
interdependent.
Physical convergence: Combining two or more 
individual products into a single component.
Modules: Bringing together components from a 
variety of sources, internal and external, to form a 
new multifunctional high value product.
Sub-assemblies: Fitting modules and other 
components together onto a single “deck”.
Bundling: Supplying a range of our individual 
products into a customer’s device.
Delivering	Value	from	Technology
Laird Technologies is delivering shareholder value 
through innovation and technology leadership in the 
products and solutions we offer. We own an industry 
leading patent portfolio, and a global, multidisciplined 
engineering skill base operating from strategically 
located product design centres that are increasingly 
valuable to our customers. We have a unique ability 
to exploit product convergence. All of these factors 
provide us with a technology based competitive 
advantage.
The Laird Group PLC    5    6    The Laird Group PLC
Operational Excellence
We focused heavily on operational excellence in 
2007. We believe this is a key differentiator, from 
supplying our customers “just in time”, to being 
the lowest cost supplier. During 2007 we invested 
in additional manufacturing capacity and in further 
developing our operational capabilities, through 
continuous improvement and more integrated supply 
chain management.
Expanding	our	Footprint
In the first half of 2007 we completed factory moves 
into new, larger premises in Shanghai in China and 
Penang in Malaysia, and in the second half we 
opened our expanded 15,000 square metre facility 
in Reynosa, Mexico. These followed our major new 
plant expansions and relocations in Beijing, Tianjin and 
Shenzhen in China in 2006. We increased our capacity 
utilisation at all of these plants during the year.
2008 will see our 16,000 square metre facility in 
the Nokia Business Park in Chennai, India, fully on 
stream, and we are beginning the planning for our 
“next wave” of new manufacturing capacity, likely to 
be in Western China and Vietnam.
In 2007, 81% of Laird Technologies’ revenues 
by origin were from Asia, Eastern Europe and 
Mexico (2006, 68%). At the end of 2007, Laird 
Technologies had approximately 14,500 employees 
in 15 countries, of which 12,000 are in our regional 
manufacturing centres in Mexico, Eastern Europe 
and Asia, the majority of these in China.
Upgrading	our	Capabilities
We made good progress in 2007 in enhancing 
our manufacturing capabilities and our process 
technologies. Our investment in new production 
capacity and equipment and in improving our 
capabilities continues, underpinning our future growth. 
Capital expenditure in 2007 was £25.6 million, 4.5% of 
sales and 52% higher than in 2006.
Laird Technologies’ new 15,000 sq.m. facility expansion in 
Reynosa, Mexico.
LAIRD	TECHNOLOGIES	
EMPLOYEE	HEADCOUNT	BY	GEOGRAPHIC		
REGION	2007
	Asia 
	North America 
	Mexico  
	Europe 
OPERATING REVIEW Improving	our	Supply	Chain
By the end of 2007 22 sites were live on our new 
global QAD enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) 
system, which provides us with a fully integrated 
materials planning capability. Our global commodity 
management and our strategic sourcing and 
procurement strategies are enabling us to reduce our 
materials costs and improve supplier quality. More 
of our suppliers are now providing us with vendor 
managed inventories, helping contain our working 
capital requirements.
Reducing	our	Cost	Base
We commenced in the year a further restructuring of 
our North American EMI shielding operations, with 
the progressive closure of our facility at Delaware 
Water Gap, Pennsylvania, and a significant reduction 
in manufacturing at St. Louis, Missouri, with the 
transfer of operations to Mexico and China. These 
actions follow the closure of our thermal products 
manufacturing facility in Trenton, New Jersey, 
and the cessation of antennae manufacturing 
and assembly in Lincoln, Nebraska, which have 
now been completed. We have also successfully 
relocated the manufacturing and formulation of the 
ferrite compounds for our signal integrity products 
from the USA to China, as well as the component 
manufacturing. These measures will provide cost 
benefits in 2008 and 2009.
Driving	Continuous	Improvement
We saw good improvements in our manufacturing 
processes, product quality and cost reductions 
through our Six Sigma CIP programme during the 
course of 2007. We now have well established 
systems and supporting infrastructure, and will 
continue to expand and broaden these initiatives 
across all of our businesses. These initiatives are 
allowing us to meet the increasing demands of our 
customers, while remaining cost competitive and 
maintaining our margins.
The Laird Group PLC    7   
