 Laird PLC    03   
Strategy
Over recent years Laird has been transformed 
from a diversiﬁ ed industrial group to a focused 
electronics and technology company. We hold, or 
aim to hold, leading positions in specialist markets 
with long term growth characteristics. We possess 
a broad set of complementary proprietary products, 
obtaining a competitive edge through technology and 
customer service allied to a well established low cost 
manufacturing base.
Dividend 
The Board’s policy is to increase returns to 
shareholders progressively over time, reﬂ ecting both 
the underlying proﬁ tability and the cash requirements 
of the business. In line with this policy, and 
notwithstanding the challenging macroeconomic 
environment, the Board is recommending a 
maintained ﬁ nal dividend of 7.88 pence per share. 
This represents a total dividend for the year of 
11.88 pence per share, an increase of 3% compared 
with the 11.5 pence per share for 2007. In addition, 
a special dividend of 50 pence per share was paid in 
June 2007.
Corporate and Social Responsibility
As a member of the FTSE4Good index, we recognise 
the fundamental importance of sustainability 
and sound ethical behaviour in all activities. We 
are committed to a programme of continuous 
improvement in all areas of corporate responsibility 
and our efforts are delivering demonstrable results. 
Further details of the Group’s corporate responsibility 
activities are available in the Corporate Social 
Responsibility section of this report.
Our Employees
We recognise that the expertise, initiative and 
dedication of our 10,000 plus global team are an 
essential component of our continued innovation 
and the results we have delivered this year. On behalf 
of the Board I would like to take this opportunity to 
express our gratitude to all our employees for their 
sustained efforts in challenging conditions and for all 
that they have already achieved for Laird.
Outlook
In the ﬁ rst half of 2008 revenue and proﬁ ts grew 
strongly. As the year progressed the extremely 
challenging economic environment affected all of 
our end-user markets and resulted in a marked 
fall off in demand for our products. While these 
macroeconomic conditions and de-stocking in the 
global supply chain have, as expected, continued 
into 2009, we have not seen any further deterioration 
in our revenues this year, although visibility remains 
limited. However, we still expect ﬁ rst half results to be 
considerably below the very strong levels seen in the 
ﬁ rst half of 2008.
We have a ﬂ exible business model with excellent 
customer relationships and a strong technology 
base. The long term fundamentals of our markets 
are attractive, our ﬁ nancial position is strong and we 
remain conﬁ dent about our strategy. We have taken 
swift action to position the business to weather the 
downturn, and will continue to ensure that Laird 
maintains its competitive position and emerges 
from this economic cycle well placed to capitalise 
on the opportunities provided by the evolving 
communications environment.
Chairman’s statement
“ The long term fundamentals 
of our markets are attractive, 
our ﬁ nancial position is 
strong and we remain 
conﬁ dent about our strategy.”
Nigel Keen
