 04    Laird PLC
Chief Executive’s review
Peter Hill
Overview
We design, develop and supply the technology that 
allows people, organisations and electronic devices 
to connect effectively and efﬁ ciently, locally and 
globally – key requirements in today’s increasingly 
connected world.
We are experiencing a time of sustained upheaval 
in the global economy, with its associated credit 
pressures and currency volatility, all of which are 
impacting our global electronics markets. We have 
repositioned our business to operate successfully in 
the changed economic and market environment, and 
have rapidly implemented an extensive programme 
of restructuring and cost reductions. We continue 
to invest in enhancing our technical and operational 
capabilities and increasing our customer penetration, 
while taking the necessary actions to maintain our 
competitive position.
The principal elements of our strategy remain in 
place, and we are conﬁ dent of our ability to withstand 
the downturn and emerge as a stronger company, 
continuing to be essential to our customers needs.
Results
We saw strong organic growth of 19% in the ﬁ rst 
half of the year, followed by some signs of softening 
in our markets during the third quarter. We then saw 
a sudden and dramatic reduction in our revenues 
during November, as the effects of the global 
macroeconomic downturn fully took hold in our 
markets and on our customers, accompanied by 
de-stocking in the global supply chain.
Revenue from continuing operations in 2008 was 
£635.3 million, up 13% (2007, £564.3 million). 
Organic revenue growth (one of our KPIs) at constant 
currency for the year was 0.5%. 
Underlying operating proﬁ t from continuing operations 
was £68.5 million in 2008, down 14% (2007, 
£80.0 million). Operating margin (one of our KPIs) in 
2008 was 10.8%, down from 14.2% in 2007, largely 
as a result of lower volumes in the second half.
Underlying proﬁ t before tax from continuing 
operations was £60.6 million in 2008, down 16% 
(2007, £72.4 million).  Laird PLC    05   
“ Laird is a leader in the design and supply of
customised, performance critical products and
systems for wireless and other advanced
electronic applications: Technology for a
connected world.”
We maintained our investment in plant and 
equipment, both to bring on stream our new facility 
in India and a second factory in Shenzhen, China, 
and in equipment both for customer awarded 
programmes and for new product development. 
Capital expenditure is expected to continue to be in 
excess of depreciation in 2009; we believe this will 
leave us well positioned for the future.
Net borrowings at 31 December 2008 were 
£139.5 million (2007, £85.4 million). Of this increase, 
£38.9 million resulted from the movement in 
exchange rates, mainly between the Pound Sterling 
and the US Dollar by year end, with much of the 
remainder due to maintaining our investment in the 
business.
Underlying earnings per share from continuing 
operations were 27.4 pence (2007, 33.1 pence), 
reﬂ ecting the lower proﬁ ts and, as expected, a higher 
tax rate.
We have closed or downsized a number of facilities, 
and reduced overall headcount by some 5,000 
between the beginning of October 2008 and January 
2009. These actions resulted in exceptional costs 
from continuing operations of £20.3 million in the 
year (2007, £11.9 million from continuing operations), 
of which £3.4 million is non-cash. Annualised savings 
from these actions are estimated to be in excess of 
£15 million, with the majority of the beneﬁ ts being 
seen in 2009, and the remainder in 2010.
Return on capital employed for the continuing 
business was 11.2% (2007, 16.0%), in excess of
our cost of capital.
Statutory proﬁ t before tax from continuing operations 
in 2008, after exceptional items, the amortisation 
of acquired intangibles, the gain or loss on the 
disposal of businesses and the fair valuing of ﬁ nancial 
instruments, was £26.5 million (2007, £51.5 million). 
Operating cash ﬂ ow after capital expenditure from 
continuing operations in 2008 was £48.1 million, 
up 23% (2007, £39.2 million). Our increased focus 
on cash generation resulted in cash conversion 
before capital expenditure increasing to 112% in 
2008 compared with 81% in 2007. After capital 
expenditure, cash conversion was 70% and 
49% respectively.  Strategic Development
Laird specialises in providing products and solutions 
for our customers that allow their own electronic 
devices and systems to operate efﬁ ciently and cost 
effectively. Higher speed, power and performance 
of electronic devices, as well as the increasing trend 
to wireless connectivity, drive an increasing need 
for our products and solutions. We have created a 
unique portfolio of complementary products serving 
markets where we hold leading positions. This allows 
us to increase the content of our offering in individual 
electronic devices and places us in a unique position 
to combine technologies into a single product or 
assembly. We are:
•  The global leader in the suppression or prevention 
of electromagnetic interference (“EMI”), allowing 
devices to function effectively.
•  The global leader in mobile handset antennae, 
modules and sub-assemblies, improving signal 
transmission and reception.
•  A leader in actuation mechanisms, improving 
the physical operation and versatility of 
mobile handsets.
•  A leader in thermal management products, 
removing heat from electronic devices and 
allowing them to function efﬁ ciently.
•  A leader in infrastructure, satellite radio and 
other wireless antennae systems and modules 
optimising voice, visual and data transmission
and storage.
In 2008 we reorganised our business into the 
following three divisions:
Handset Products, comprising our mobile antennae, 
handset board level EMI shielding, actuation 
mechanisms and associated handset components.
Performance Materials, comprising our non-handset 
EMI shields, signal integrity products and thermal 
management products.
Wireless Systems, comprising our infrastructure, 
telematics/satellite radio antennae, “machine to 
machine” wireless modules and other wireless 
antennae and systems.
Mobile phone handsets provide one of the world’s 
largest concentrations of electronics equipment, 
and comprise our largest market segment. Our 
Handset Products division brings together all of our 
products and technologies for mobile phones and 
handheld communication devices. This allows us 
to achieve greater focus on this important market, 
additional customer penetration, and to provide a 
fully integrated service to those customers.
Our Performance Materials division brings together 
our products which protect electronic devices and 
ensure that they operate effectively and efﬁ ciently. 
Our product groups in this division generally share 
common customers, allowing increased penetration 
and better account management.
Our Wireless Systems division brings together all our 
non handset antennae and wireless module product 
areas, allowing improved technology synergies and 
more cost effective technology management.
North America Asia
Europe RoW
BY DESTINATION
North America Asia
Europe
BY ORIGIN
2008 REVENUE
BY PRODUCT SEGMENT
Mobile Antennae 
Non-handset EMI / Signal Integrity
 
Other Antennae
Handset Metals
Telematics / Wireless Modules
Actuation Mechanisms
Thermal
Other
Laird PLC    07
BY MARKET SEGMENT
Handsets
IT / Datacomm
Transportation
Consumer
Industrial & Instrumentation
Other  We are a leading global supplier 
of customised, high performance 
products to the global mobile 
phone handset and handheld 
device manufacturers, enhancing 
connectivity, performance and 
physical functionality. 
The division’s products include 
cellular and complementary 
(Bluetooth, WiFi, FM, Zigbee and 
GPS) antennae, board level EMI 
shielding (“BLS”), environmental 
gaskets, mechanical actuation 
mechanisms such as sliders and 
camera shutters, audio modules, 
integrated sub-assemblies including 
SIM holders and contacts, and 
decorative metals.
Laird PLC    09
Handset Products
Division
OPERATING REVIEW 10    Laird PLC
Divisional revenues increased 15% in 2008 to 
£348.7 million, albeit this was enhanced by currency 
movements: organic revenue growth at constant 
currency for the division was 3% in the full year, a 
reduction from the 26% growth in the ﬁ rst half. The 
division accounted for 55% of Laird’s total revenues 
in the year. 
The majority, 57%, of divisional revenues in 2008 
were cellular antennae products, with 24% from 
actuation mechanisms and 19% from handset 
metals, including BLS.
Our customers now include all the “top 5” global 
Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”): Nokia, 
Samsung, Motorola, Sony Ericsson and LG, as well 
as Asian Original Design Manufacturers (“ODMs”) 
and OEMs such as Huawei and HTC, together with 
handheld device manufacturers such as RIM and 
Palm. We are expecting our ﬁ rst penetration on the 
third generation Apple iPhone in 2009.
Nokia, the world leader in mobile phones, is the 
largest customer for Laird and for the division. We 
supply our full range of products, including a high 
proportion of our antennae and BLS sales and 
virtually all of our actuation mechanisms sales. We 
enjoy high market shares across this product range, 
and saw good sales growth during 2008.
At Samsung, we saw our ﬁ rst signiﬁ cant shipments 
of BLS in 2008, and expect further penetration in 
2009. We have recently achieved design wins for 
mechanisms, for shipment in 2009, and are working 
with Samsung on antennae development. At LG, we 
achieved a large percentage increase in our antennae 
sales as we gained share, albeit from a relatively low 
base. We expect to begin to supply BLS to LG in 2009. 
Sales to Motorola of our antennae products, and 
particularly BLS, fell in the year, partly as a result 
of Motorola’s own lower handset shipments in the 
year. We gained share in antennae, but accepted 
Handset Products Division
Year ended 2008 2007 
31 December £m £m +/–
Revenue 348.7 303.0 +15%
Underlying operating proﬁ t 37.4 42.4 –12%
Return on sales 10.7% 14.0% 
HANDSET PRODUCTS 2008 REVENUE 
BY PRODUCT SEGMENT
Actuation Mechanisms
Antennae Handset Metals Laird PLC    11
a reduced share in BLS particularly in lower priced 
shields. Sales to Sony Ericsson also fell, partly as 
a result of Sony Ericsson’s own drop off in handset 
shipments, particularly in higher end handsets.
 In 2008 we began to gain traction with Taiwanese 
handset OEMs and ODMs,  as well as with the main 
handheld device makers RIM and Palm,  with further 
gains expected in 2009.
Overall, the market for our mechanical actuation 
mechanisms continued to increase, with more 
phones using sliders and cameras. We now have a 
very signiﬁ cant business in this area, following our 
acquisition of M2Sys in early 2007, and in 2008 
began to penetrate non-Nokia accounts. This trend is 
expected to continue in 2009.
The division’s underlying operating proﬁ t fell 12% 
in the year to £37.4 million (2007, £42.4 million). 
Return on sales fell from 14.0% in 2007 to 10.7% 
in 2008 with the decline being caused by a number 
of factors. These included the effect of adverse 
foreign exchange movements in the ﬁ rst half of 
2008, reduced volumes in the second half, change 
in the product mix (in particular a higher proportion 
of antennae modules and actuation mechanisms, 
with higher materials content, resulting in lower than 
average margins), increased investment in 2008 
on engineering, R&D and account management, 
India start-up costs, and increased price downs 
particularly in handset metals.
Most industry commentators expect global unit 
handset shipments to decline by at least 10% in 
2009 compared with 2008. However, we believe 
that we can mitigate to a degree the impact of this 
on our business, by the broadening of our customer 
base and our expanded product portfolio, as well as 
through our continuous improvement programmes, 
higher procurement savings, and by concentrating 
on handset product manufacturing in our lowest cost 
plants, in China and India.
We announced the closure of our antennae assembly 
plant in Hungary in December, and began relocating 
manufacture of handset products from Mexico and 
the Czech Republic to China. Our plant in Chennai, 
India became fully operational during the year, 
initially supplying Nokia and with penetration of new 
customers in India anticipated in 2009. 2008 also 
saw us ramp up manufacturing and assembly of 
actuation mechanisms in Beijing and Shenzhen, 
China. During the year we expanded our handset 
engineering teams in Stockholm, Sweden and in 
Beijing and Shenzhen in China, and opened an 
advanced engineering and technology development 
centre in San Jose, USA, the latter achieving 
immediate programme wins for delivery in 2009.
We also made investments in the following key areas, 
which should beneﬁ t us in 2009 and beyond:-
• Laser Directed Structuring (“LDS”), a method to 
apply three dimensional antennae patterns on a 
plastic carrier, using an advanced laser system 
and plating process.
• Physical Vapour Deposition for the manufacture of 
precision visual parts.
• State of the art processes for the manufacture 
of antennae radiators based on ﬂ exible circuit 
boards for the portable device market.
• A unique combination of mechanical sliders 
containing an embedded, fully functional 
antennae system.
We are also expanding our product portfolio with 
advanced antennae solutions for the emerging 
mobile Broadband PC market. These will enable 
enhanced performance for 3G, 4G and advanced 
Radio Frequency (“RF”) for Notebooks, Netbooks 
and mobile internet devices.
We believe that in the current period of market turmoil 
there are opportunities to increase our capabilities, 
bring on new product families, and expand our market 
shares at the expense of weaker competitors. We 
will be pursuing these opportunities in 2009, to best 
position our business for the market recovery.  Laird PLC    13
Performance Materials
Division
OPERATING REVIEW
Our customised, high precision 
products and systems are critical in 
maintaining and enhancing the integrity 
and performance of electronic devices.
The division designs and supplies a 
full range of EMI shielding materials, 
thermal management solutions and 
signal integrity products. These 
provide critical protection for a wide 
range of electronic devices, allowing 
them to function and connect 
effectively, whether for voice or visual 
communication or for high quality data 
storage and transmission.
Our EMI shielding products isolate 
sensitive electronic components 
and apparatus from electromagnetic 
emissions, which can interfere with 
their operation and performance; our 
thermal management materials protect 
and improve a device’s performance 
through the transfer of heat, while our 
ferrite-based signal integrity products 
remove and ﬁ lter unwanted or harmful 
electromagnetic “noise” generated by 
active components. 14    Laird PLC
Divisional revenues increased by 5% in 2008 to 
£190.9 million although at constant currency organic 
growth in the full year was negative 5%, compared 
with positive growth of 7% in the ﬁ rst half, as a result 
of the marked fall off in demand in the second half.
The majority, 65%, of the divisional revenues in 2008 
were EMI shielding materials, with 23% from our 
thermal management solutions and 12% from our 
signal integrity products.
By market segment, the majority, 56%, of the 
division’s revenues in 2008 were to the IT, 
telecommunications and Datacomm sectors, with 
the balance to the consumer electronics, industrial 
and instrumentation, medical, and aerospace and 
defence markets.
The division serves a large and diverse customer 
base and we remain particularly well positioned, with 
leading market shares, in the computing, network 
and telecom infrastructure segments. Despite the 
2008 downturn, we saw increased sales over 2007 
of our EMI and Thermal products to Cisco, Huawei, 
Motorola, Sun, Juniper, Quanta, Siemens, Ericsson, 
and Intel, and maintained our sales to Dell.
EMI and Thermal sales into the Notebook PC market 
showed good growth compared with 2007. Sales to 
HP declined, largely in our signal integrity products 
into the printer segment, where demand remained 
soft during the year. In consumer electronics, our 
EMI sales into the ﬂ at screen TV segment showed 
good growth in the year, again despite the downturn, 
with market share growth at Panasonic, Samsung, 
Toshiba and Sony.
Underlying operating proﬁ t fell 17% in the year to 
£23.1 million (2007, £28.0 million). Return on sales 
in the division fell from 15.4% in 2007 to 12.1% in 
2008, with the decline due to a number of factors. 
Performance Materials Division
Year ended 2008 2007
31 December £m £m +/–
Revenue 190.9 181.8 +5%
Underlying operating proﬁ t 23.1 28.0 –17%
Return on sales 12.1% 15.4% 
IT / Datacomm
Transportation
Consumer
Industrial & Instrumentation
Other
PERFORMANCE MATERIALS 2008 REVENUE 
BY MARKET SEGMENT 
Non-handset EMI
Thermal
Signal Integrity
PERFORMANCE MATERIALS 2008 REVENUE 
BY PRODUCT SEGMENT  Laird PLC    15
These included the effect of adverse currency 
movements in the ﬁ rst half of 2008, reduced volumes 
in the second half, temporarily higher materials and 
sales administration costs resulting from our North 
American restructuring, increased investment in 2008 
in engineering, R&D and account management, and 
pricing pressure in signal integrity products.
We were active in the year in expanding our product 
portfolio, and introduced new product lines in our 
non metal EMI shielding offering. These new products 
were key in strengthening our position in the telecom 
infrastructure segment, and we remain optimistic 
about their further potential.
We continue to expand our metal shielding solutions 
with our ﬁ rst sales to Garmin and Lorentz for their 
portable GPS applications. We have expanded our 
precision metals capabilities and we achieved our 
ﬁ rst convergence product sales using thermal board 
level shielding for Nokia and Micron.
Our range of thermal products are needed to remove 
unwanted heat from active electronic components, 
thereby enhancing their performance.
We maintained our leading market position in thermal 
gap ﬁ ller materials, by expanding beyond traditional 
applications (computing, wireless infrastructure, and 
gaming), into new areas such as lighting and other 
consumer devices. New products were launched 
which focused on maintaining our lead in high 
thermal performance, and others were products 
designed to deliver acceptable performance at a 
lower price.
New high performance materials in phase change 
and grease products allowed us to achieve the 
extremely demanding performance required by 
customers for use in their memory and advanced 
micro processor applications. Thermal interface 
products for power and light applications also 
showed substantial growth, due to the emerging 
needs of high powered LED lighting applications.
Our thermoelectric heating and cooling products 
continued to grow as active cooling solutions for 
telecom infrastructure, medical imaging, lasers, 
and analytical systems demanded high reliability 
and precise temperature control in more compact 
thermoelectric systems.
In our signal integrity products, while our overall sales 
to the printer market were down, we successfully 
began diversifying our customer base beyond our 
traditional customer in this area, Hewlett Packard, 
with programme wins at Canon, Epson and Lexmark. 
We also began expanding our board level ferrite 
components offering, particularly for set top boxes 
and digital subscriber line hardware applications. We 
have begun developing a new generation of products, 
and are strengthening our direct sales force: both of 
these actions are expected to beneﬁ t us in 2009.
Operationally, we completed the closure of our 
EMI shielding plant in Pennsylvania, USA and have 
expanded the division’s manufacturing footprint 
in Mexico and China. We have also announced 
the progressive ramp down of the majority of the 
manufacture of thermal products at our Cleveland, 
USA facility, and product transfers to China will take 
place during 2009.
The higher speed, power and performance of 
electronic devices will underpin demand for our 
Performance Materials division’s products. In the 
current downturn we are accelerating the relocation 
of our remaining manufacturing in the USA to lower 
cost locations, maintaining our emphasis on the 
development of higher performance products to 
better differentiate us from our competitors, and 
expanding our customer base. All of these actions 
should beneﬁ t us when markets recover. 16    Laird PLC Laird PLC    17
Heading
Laird PLC    17
Wireless Systems
Division
OPERATING REVIEW
We design and supply a range 
of customised, high speciﬁ cation 
wireless antennae, systems and 
machine-to-machine (“M2M”) 
wireless modules for the 
infrastructure, automotive and 
transportation, municipal, industrial 
and instrumentation, datacomm, 
security, retail and asset 
management markets. 18    Laird PLC 18    Laird PLC
Divisional revenues increased by 20% in 2008 to 
£95.7 million (2007, £79.5 million), helped by the 
acquisitions of Cushcraft in early 2007 and Ezurio 
in early 2008.  Organic revenue growth at constant 
currency in the full year was 2%, compared with 
growth of 26% in the ﬁ rst half.
The majority, 57%, of the division’s revenues in 
2008 were from telematics antennae modules into 
the automotive market, with 34% of revenues from 
the infrastructure, datacomm, security and asset 
management sectors, and 9% from sales of our 
wireless M2M modules.
In 2008, our telematics antennae OEM sales to our 
major automotive customers were ﬂ at year on year, 
in spite of a rapidly deteriorating vehicle sales market 
in the second half of the year. These positive results 
were achieved in part by increasing the penetration 
of our antennae products as satellite radio became 
standard equipment on many vehicles in the United 
States. We also launched high volume antennae 
programmes with Ford, a new customer, during 
the year. 
In the telematics commercial segment, we continued 
our planned ramp down in the low margin consumer 
retroﬁ t segment and directed our focus on wireless 
M2M products. Our advanced development team 
introduced a low cost telematics device aimed at the 
asset management / vehicle tracking segment for 
the ﬁ rst time. In addition, we have developed several 
“smart antennae”, meaning antennae integrated 
with wireless modules, for major customers such as 
Magneti Marelli and Qualcomm.
We are seeing increasing instances of applications 
where wireless modules, including 802.11, Wireless 
LAN, and Bluetooth, are integrated into telematics’ 
products such as the smart antennae referred to 
above. Our new solution for vehicle tracking and 
Wireless Systems Division
Year ended 2008 2007
31 December £m £m +/–
Revenue 95.7 79.5 +20%
Underlying operating proﬁ t 8.0 9.6 –17%
Return on sales 8.4% 12.1% 
IT / Datacomm
Transportation / Automotive
Other
WIRELESS SYSTEMS 2008 REVENUE 
BY MARKET SEGMENT 
Telematics
Infrastructure and other antennae
Wireless “M2M” modules
WIRELESS SYSTEMS 2008 REVENUE 
BY PRODUCT SEGMENT  Laird PLC    19 Laird PLC    19
data collection is also gaining traction with large ﬂ eet 
operators and is currently being evaluated in several 
ﬁ eld trials.
Our development of various Bluetooth, Zigbee and 
proprietary radio platforms will allow us to expand 
our product proﬁ le in various M2M segments beyond 
telematics, most notably in retail, meter reading and 
diagnostics applications.
Deployments of US based WiMax infrastructure 
networks were sluggish in 2008, due to delays in 
infrastructure roll outs as the market waited to see 
whether WiMax or the competing fourth generation 
cellular protocol would predominate. In infrastructure 
antennae more generally, we continued to win 
new OEM designs and are in a good position to 
participate in future growth areas such as Asia, 
where we have increased our sales footprint.
Although a number of large RFID deployments were 
delayed during the year, we saw our own business 
double in 2008 and continue to be optimistic regarding 
the long term growth opportunities offered by RFID 
penetration in asset tracking, real-time location 
systems (RTLS), and in retail and warehousing.
Our Land Mobile Radio applications grew well in 
2008, driven by key OEM application wins as well as 
US Homeland Security spending. We believe there 
will be continued emphasis on US infrastructure 
spending in this area over the medium term.
We expanded our Broadband infrastructure 
capabilities through the use of cellular based 
frequencies, using picocells, point-to-point 
systems and repeaters. We have both strong OEM 
relationships as well as broad channel coverage, 
and are positioned to take advantage of the newly 
developed femtocell short range communications 
deployments in 2009 and beyond.
We also achieved growth in personal gaming and 
set top box applications. This market continues 
to look strong over the medium term as wireless 
networking solutions moves from accessories to 
standard integrated functionality for these devices.
The division’s underlying operating proﬁ t fell 17% in 
the year, to £8.0 million (2007, £9.6 million). Return 
on sales fell from 12.1% in 2007 to 8.4% in 2008, 
with the decline being caused by a number of 
factors. These included the effect of lower volumes 
in the second half, higher materials content in M2M 
modules, increased investment in engineering, 
R&D and direct sales, and greater pricing pressure 
in Telematics.
The division suffered particularly in the latter part 
of 2008, with reduced demand in our telematics 
applications in line with the well publicised problems 
of the automotive industry. We also started to see 
delays and programme cutbacks in infrastructure and 
RFID antennae programmes, while the M2M module 
market did not exhibit the growth projected by 
industry commentators and customers in the ﬁ rst half 
of 2008.
We expect these conditions to continue during 2009. 
We will continue to reduce costs where necessary 
in the division to enhance our competitive position 
at the expense of weaker competitors. We are also 
maintaining our focus on product development and 
on improving our capabilities, as well as increasing 
our customer penetration and geographic spread 
of business beyond the US. All of these factors 
are designed to position the division for a return to 
growth as economic conditions recover. 20    Laird PLC
Technology and Innovation
Our aim is to make ourselves indispensible to our 
customers, and to differentiate ourselves from our 
competitors, through delivering technology-based 
solutions. We maintained our technology leadership 
positions during the year, working closely with 
our customers to develop advanced solutions 
critical to the performance of their own electronic 
devices. Areas of expertise include electromagnetic 
interference shielding, heat transfer/thermal 
management, wireless voice and data, acoustic 
design, complex mechanical structures and aspects 
of satellite communications. With some 785 technical 
professionals globally providing advanced R&D and 
engineering, allied to local design expertise and rapid 
prototyping, we are equipped to deliver solutions at 
the component or systems level and have a unique 
ability to integrate multiple, specialised technologies.
Our investment in R&D in 2008 was £39.0 million 
before £7.3 million of capitalised development, 
up from £25.0 million in 2007, although exchange 
movements accounted for £3.6 million of the 
increase. Expenditure was 6.1% of sales in 2008 
before capitalised development.
We serve a broad array of markets, ranging from the 
medical market, where we design and manufacture 
complex thermoelectric modules that cool critical 
electronic systems in x-ray imaging equipment, to 
the cellular infrastructure market, where we have 
expanded our product offering to include solutions 
for all of the communication protocols, including 
LTE, WiMax and other 2G/3G/4G cellular network 
requirements. 
A view of formed metallic particles (left) and an image of particulate 
ﬁ llers (right) captured using scanning electron microscopy in our 
Corporate Research Lab in Bangalore, India, where we analyse 
the properties of material systems and their impact on product 
performance
OPERATING REVIEW
PATENT PORTFOLIO 2005-08
0
200
400
600
800
2005 2006 2007 2008 Innovation in Technology Convergence 
Mobile device customers demand high levels of 
technology integration to meet the physical operation 
of their phones, minimising size and weight whilst 
meeting demanding performance criteria. One of 
our innovations in this area is the combination of 
highly efﬁ cient, controllable antennae radiators based 
on ﬂ exible circuit boards with a thin, lightweight 
mechanical slider, for application in next generation 
mobile phone handsets. 
In the Datacomm sector, high speed computer 
memory can require enhanced cooling to maintain 
performance and longevity and we provide an 
advanced solution to this challenge through the 
combination of precision progressive stamping 
technology and high performance thermal 
interface materials. 
A further example of technology convergence is the 
combination of deep drawn stamping technology, 
high speed laser welding and precision micro 
ﬁ ngerstock progressive stamping, which produces 
high performance miniature electromagnetic shields 
for demanding portable electronics applications.
Advanced Manufacturing Technologies
Many of our product innovations have required us 
to develop proprietary manufacturing techniques or 
establish new manufacturing processes in-house. 
During the year we developed our own enhanced 
acoustic testing capabilities, giving us design 
capabilities in this area, and allowing us to simulate 
a range of performance conditions: this allows our 
customers to optimise their own product design. 
Surface mount technology (“SMT”) is also a key 
manufacturing capability, employed to mount 
robotically the control circuitry to cellular antennae, 
assemble telematics ampliﬁ ers and assemble 
Bluetooth™ and WiFi radio modules. Our new 
high speed automated laser welding, reel-to-reel 
insert moulding of thermoplastic materials, and the 
development of ﬂ exible ﬁ lm antennae manufacturing 
capabilities, allow us to offer integrated solutions to 
our customers.
Intellectual Property Portfolio Growth
The importance of a solid intellectual property 
foundation is becoming ever more critical, as 
innovation focuses on high value, multi-technology 
solutions. During the year 84 new patent applications 
were generated and 112 new patents granted, 
bringing our total patent portfolio to 725 issued 
patents worldwide, up 19% on 2007. We also have 
more than 476 patents pending. 
Corporate Research Laboratory Achievements
Our Corporate Research Laboratory in Bangalore, 
India, which opened in December 2007, is now fully 
operational with a growing team of scientists with 
masters and doctorate degrees, and with world 
class research equipment in place. The focus of this 
centre is on the development of leading edge new 
materials technology that will provide breakthrough 
new product platforms. To date the laboratory 
has generated three of these platforms capable of 
securing intellectual property protection, and has 
established R&D relationships with universities in the 
local area. 
Laird PLC    21
