 04    Laird PLC
Chief Executive’s review
Overview
Laird is a leader in the design, manufacture and 
supply of customised, performance critical products 
and systems for wireless and other advanced 
electronic applications. We design, develop 
and supply the technology that allows people, 
organisations and electronic devices to connect 
effectively and efﬁ ciently, locally and globally: we 
provide technology for a connected world.
In 2009 we experienced a sustained upheaval in the 
global economy, with its associated credit pressures, 
reductions in consumer spending and currency 
volatility, all of which impacted our global electronics 
markets. We were also impacted by destocking in 
our global supply chain, the effect of market share 
loss by certain key customers in their end user 
markets, bankruptcy ﬁ lings in the automotive sector, 
and the loss of market share with a key customer 
in our Handset Products division as they changed 
their sourcing strategy. Trading conditions were 
challenging, and visibility of customer demand 
was limited and volatile.
Against that background, we rapidly implemented 
an extensive programme of restructuring and cost 
reductions and strengthened our balance sheet, 
repositioning our business to operate successfully 
in the changed economic and market environment. 
We continued to invest in enhancing our technical 
and operational capabilities, which has allowed 
us to increase our penetration with a number of 
key customers as well as expanding our customer 
base itself.
Results
Revenue from continuing operations in 2009 was 
£528.8 million, down 17% (2008, £635.3 million). 
Revenues in US Dollars declined 30% in the year. 
Compared to the ﬁ rst half, revenues in the second 
half of 2009 were broadly ﬂ at on those in the ﬁ rst half 
expressed in Sterling, but were up 8% in US Dollars. 
We saw good revenue growth in the second half of 
the year in our Performance Materials and Wireless 
Systems divisions, while revenues in our Handset 
Products division declined, compared with the ﬁ rst 
half of 2009.
We took swift and aggressive actions during the year 
to reduce our cost base in response to the economic 
downturn, ﬂ exing direct labour costs, consolidating 
facilities and reducing direct overheads and Selling, 
General & Administration (“SG&A”) costs, while 
largely maintaining our investment in engineering 
and research & development (“R&D”). Our objective 
has been to protect proﬁ tability during the downturn, 
while retaining our capabilities and our ability to 
respond rapidly to a market recovery.
In 2009, we reduced our direct labour costs in 
US Dollars by 30% compared with 2008, in line 
with the fall in revenues. Total overheads in 2009, 
including direct overheads, SG&A costs and R&D, 
were $72 million (£45.9 million) lower than in 2008, 
as a result of the actions we had taken.
Peter Hill Laird PLC    05   
“ Laird is a leader in the design, manufacture 
and supply of customised, performance critical 
products and systems for wireless and other 
advanced electronic applications: Technology 
for a connected world.”
Statutory proﬁ t before tax from continuing operations 
in 2009, after exceptional items, the amortisation 
of acquired intangibles, the gain or loss on the 
disposal of businesses and the fair valuing of ﬁ nancial 
instruments, was £4.6 million (2008, £26.5 million).
We focused strongly on cash generation in 2009, 
reducing working capital signiﬁ cantly and curtailing 
capital expenditure. Operating cash ﬂ ow after 
capital expenditure from continuing operations was 
£49.7 million (2008, £48.1 million). Cash conversion 
after capital expenditure was 148% (2008, 70%).
Net borrowings at 31 December 2009 were 
£45.4 million (2008, £139.5 million), with the 
reduction due largely to the receipt of proceeds 
from the Rights Issue announced in October 2009 
together with the strong cash conversion of proﬁ ts.
Underlying earnings per share from continuing 
operations were 9.6 pence (2008, 23.8 pence), 
reﬂ ecting the lower proﬁ ts and, as expected, a 
higher tax rate.
Underlying operating proﬁ t from continuing 
operations was £33.6 million in 2009, down 51% 
(2008, £68.5 million). Operating margin was 6.4%, 
down from 10.8% in 2008. However, the operating 
proﬁ t of £22.2 million in the second half of 2009 grew 
strongly compared with the £11.4 million in the ﬁ rst 
half. Underlying operating margin in the second half 
of the year was 8.5% (8.8% in the fourth quarter), 
compared well with the 4.3% in the ﬁ rst half.
Underlying proﬁ t before tax from continuing 
operations was £26.5 million in 2009, down 56% 
(2008, £60.6 million). However, underlying pre tax 
proﬁ t in the second half of 2009, at £18.9 million, was 
more than double the £7.6 million in the ﬁ rst half of 
the year.
The restructuring actions taken, including headcount 
reductions and the consolidation of manufacturing 
facilities, resulted in exceptional costs from continuing 
operations of £10.2 million in the year, with a cash 
spend of £3.4 million. There was an additional cash 
spend on exceptional items of £8.6 million in 2009, 
resulting from exceptional charges incurred in 2008.  Strategic Development
Laird has built or acquired a number of leading 
positions in its core markets with a broad range 
of proprietary products and strong customer 
relationships. We specialise in providing products 
and solutions for our customers that allow their 
own electronic devices to operate efﬁ ciently and 
cost effectively.
Through investment in technology leadership, we 
seek to strengthen our positions in our core markets, 
to broaden our customer base, and to increase our 
penetration with our customers. We saw beneﬁ ts 
from this investment in 2009 in terms of new 
customer and programme wins, with further gains 
expected in 2010 and 2011.
We continue to enhance our competitive edge 
by repositioning manufacturing, engineering and 
support functions to lower cost locations, while 
maintaining the highest levels of customer support. 
Approximately 90% of our revenues by manufactured 
origin in 2009 were from lower cost countries. We 
seek to be the “employer of choice” in these locations, 
recognising that competition for labour will continue 
to increase.
We believe that we are well positioned geographically, 
particularly in our ability to serve the growing Asian 
economies, and in markets with attractive 
fundamentals. For example, a leading industry 
commentator, iSuppli, is projecting a compound 
annual growth rate (“CAGR”) of 9% a year, from 2009 
to 2012, for mobile device unit shipments, with growth 
driven in product terms by “smartphones” and 
geographically in Asia, Eastern Europe, the 
Middle East and Africa. They are also forecasting 
strong growth in embedded telematics, including 
satellite radio, with a CAGR of 24% a year from 
2009 to 2012.
PC notebooks and netbooks are expected to be 
another area of growth, with Gartner projecting a 
CAGR of 21% a year, from 2009 to 2012, in unit 
shipments, while mobile network infrastructure 
spend is projected to be maintained, with growth in 
infrastructure for 3G, 3.5G and 4G/LTE more than 
offsetting a decline in 2G. 
Other areas projected by iSuppli to show strong 
growth are LCD ﬂ at screen displays (2009 – 2012 
CAGR of 16% a year), and Machine to Machine 
(“M2M”) wireless modules (2009 – 2012 CAGR 44% 
a year). Strong growth is also projected in both 
wireless broadband and cellular wireless adoption 
across a broad range of consumer electronics 
(including gaming devices, book readers, portable 
navigation devices, and broadband PC applications) 
with a CAGR in unit shipments of 23% a year.
In the medium term we also believe that opportunities 
exist in a number of new emerging growth markets, 
where we currently have little presence but where 
we are now researching the opportunities for the 
application of both our existing, and potential new, 
components and systems. 
2009 REVENUE
Laird PLC    07
North America Asia
Europe RoW
BY DESTINATION
North America Asia
Europe
BY ORIGIN
Handsets Consumer
IT / Datacom Industrial & 
Instrumentation
Transportation
Other
BY MARKET SEGMENT
Mobile Antennae Actuation Mechanisms
T elematics/ 
Wireless Modules
Non-handset EMI/ 
Signal Integrity
Other Antennae Thermal
Handset Metals Other
BY PRODUCT SEGMENT  Laird PLC    09
Performance Materials
Division
OPERATING REVIEW
The division designs and supplies a 
full range of EMI shielding materials, 
thermal management solutions and 
signal integrity products. These 
provide critical protection for a wide 
range of electronic devices, allowing 
them to function and connect 
effectively, whether for voice or visual 
communication or for high quality data 
storage and transmission.
Our EMI shielding products isolate 
sensitive electronic components 
and apparatus from electromagnetic 
emissions, which can interfere with 
their operation and performance; our 
thermal management materials protect 
and improve a device’s performance 
through the transfer of heat, while our 
ferrite-based signal integrity products 
remove and ﬁ lter unwanted or harmful 
electromagnetic “noise” generated by 
active components. 10    Laird PLC
The division designs and supplies a full range of EMI 
shielding materials, thermal management solutions 
and signal integrity products. These provide critical 
protection for a wide range of electronic devices, 
allowing them to function and connect effectively, 
whether for voice or visual communication or for 
high quality data storage and transmission.
Our EMI shielding products isolate sensitive electronic 
components and apparatus from electromagnetic 
emissions, which can interfere with their operation 
and performance; our thermal management materials 
protect and improve a device’s performance through 
the transfer of heat, while our ferrite-based signal 
integrity products remove and ﬁ lter unwanted or 
harmful electromagnetic “noise” generated by 
active components.
Divisional revenues decreased by 5% in 2009 to 
£181.9 million, with the year-on-year decline in 
revenues in US Dollars being 19%. However, we 
saw an encouraging recovery in the second half of 
2009, with divisional revenues up 21% in US Dollars 
compared with the ﬁ rst half. Divisional revenues grew 
progressively quarter by quarter during the year.
The majority, 63%, of the divisional revenues in 2009 
were from EMI shielding materials, with 27% from our 
thermal management solutions and 10% from our 
signal integrity products.
By market segment, 52%, of the division’s revenues 
in 2009 were to the IT, telecommunications and 
datacom sectors, with the balance to the consumer 
electronics, industrial and instrumentation, medical, 
and aerospace and defence markets.
PERFORMANCE MATERIALS 2009 REVENUE 
BY MARKET SEGMENT
IT / Datacom
Transportation Other
Consumer
Industrial / Instrumentation
PERFORMANCE MATERIALS 2009 REVENUE 
BY PRODUCT SEGMENT
EMI
Thermal
Signal Integrity
Performance Materials Division
Year ended 2009 2008
31 December H1 H2 Year
£m £m £m £m
Revenue 86.3 95.6 181.9 190.9
Underlying 
operating proﬁ t 4.8 14.2 19.0 23.1
Return on sales 5.6% 14.9% 10.4% 12. 1% Laird PLC    11
2009 was a record year for revenues from our 
thermal management product lines, despite the 
overall economic downturn. We beneﬁ tted from new 
product introductions, and saw growth in revenues 
into the telecom and datacom infrastructure markets 
and notebook PCs, as well as into the LED lighting, 
medical and aerospace sectors.
Revenues in our EMI product lines declined overall 
compared with 2008. From a low point in the second 
quarter of 2009, we have seen progressive growth 
during the second half, particularly into PC notebooks, 
telecom and datacom, portable location devices 
and aerospace. 
Revenues in our signal integrity product lines fell 
sharply in the ﬁ rst half of 2009 compared with 2008, 
as a result of excess industry capacity caused by 
reduced customer demand. During the year we 
began to see the beneﬁ ts of a re-engineering of our 
product lines and we expanded and strengthened 
our sales force for these products, regaining market 
share and broadening our customer base, with the 
result that revenues in the second half of the year 
grew strongly compared with the ﬁ rst half.
Underlying operating proﬁ t in the division fell 18% in 
the year to £19.0 million (2008, £23.1 million), and 
return on sales fell from 12.1% in 2008 to 10.4% in 
2009. However, underlying operating proﬁ t recovered 
well in the second half of 2009 compared with ﬁ rst 
half, as a result of higher revenues and the beneﬁ t of 
cost reductions; return on sales in the second half 
increased to 14.9% compared with 5.6% in the 
ﬁ rst half.
We successfully launched a number of new products 
during 2009, resulting in market share gains, greater 
penetration at existing customers, and a broadening 
of the customer base.
We introduced a new range of cooling products, with 
thermoelectric assemblies offering a more compact 
design and enhanced thermal module performance, 
as well as new thermally conductive printed circuit 
board products, initially for the LED lighting market. 
We also developed softer and thinner “fabric over 
foam” shielding materials, providing customers with 
a lighter and more versatile solution without any loss 
of performance. Our new EMI Sentry™ family of 
EMI form in place gaskets offers greater adhesion, 
strength and reliability that is ideal for base stations 
and portable devices, as well as for the consumer 
electronics industry more generally. A number of 
new EMI elastomer products were also introduced, 
underpinning our growth in the telecom and datacom 
infrastructure markets.
The re-engineering of our signal integrity products 
has resulted in the launch of new families of ferrite 
cores, and chip beads for use with printed circuit 
boards, and these have been instrumental in the 
recovery in revenues seen in the second half.
Operationally, we have continued the progressive 
relocation of the majority of our remaining North 
American manufacturing in this division to Asia, and 
are also strengthening our design and engineering 
capabilities in Asia, where the majority of the 
division’s customers are now located.
The higher power, speed and performance of 
electronic devices are expected to underpin demand 
for our Performance Materials division’s products. 
We saw a recovery in both revenues and proﬁ ts in 
this division in the second half of 2009, and have 
strengthened its capabilities and enhanced its 
competitiveness. We currently expect this recovery 
to continue into 2010.  We are a leading global supplier 
of customised, high performance 
products to the global mobile 
phone handset and handheld 
device manufacturers, enhancing 
connectivity, performance and 
physical functionality. 
The division’s products include 
cellular and complementary 
(Bluetooth, WiFi, FM, Zigbee and 
GPS) antennae, board level EMI 
shielding (“BLS”), environmental 
gaskets, mechanical actuation 
mechanisms such as sliders and 
camera shutters, audio modules, 
integrated sub-assemblies including 
SIM holders and contacts, and 
visual metals.
Laird PLC    13
Handset Products
Division
OPERATING REVIEW 14    Laird PLC
We are a leading global supplier of customised, 
high performance products to the global mobile 
phone handset and handheld device manufacturers, 
enhancing connectivity, performance and physical 
functionality. The division’s products include cellular 
and complementary (Bluetooth, WiFi, FM, Zigbee 
and GPS) antennae, board level EMI shielding 
(“BLS”), environmental gaskets, mechanical actuation 
mechanisms such as sliders and camera shutters, 
audio modules, integrated sub-assemblies including 
SIM holders and contacts, and visual metals.
Divisional revenues decreased 25% in 2009 to 
£262.0 million (2008, £348.7 million); in US Dollars, 
the year-on-year decline was 36%. 
The majority, 63%, of divisional revenues in 2009 
were cellular and complementary antennae products, 
with 19% from actuation mechanisms and 18% from 
handset metals, including BLS.
Revenues in the division in the second half of 2009 
declined by 7% in US Dollars compared with the 
ﬁ rst half of the year. Revenues in our antennae and 
handset metals product lines showed quarter on 
quarter growth in the fourth quarter, although this 
trend was not seen in actuation mechanisms, where 
fourth quarter revenues declined signiﬁ cantly.
As previously highlighted, we have lost market share 
in the actuation mechanisms and handset metals 
product lines as a result of a progressive shift in the 
sourcing policy of a major customer, in favour of large 
contract manufacturers.
In handset metals we have been successful in 
broadening our customer base, particularly in the 
“smartphone” segment. These new revenues are 
largely offsetting the impact of the major customer’s  
change in sourcing policy. 
HANDSET PRODUCTS 2009 REVENUE 
BY PRODUCT SEGMENT
Antennae
Actuation Mechanisms
Handset Metals
Handset Products Division
Year ended 2009 2008
31 December H1 H2 Year
 £m £m £m £m
Revenue 142.4 119.6 262.0 348.7
Underlying 
operating proﬁ t 6.3 5.4 11.7 37.4
Return on sales 4.4% 4.5% 4.5% 10. 7% Laird PLC    15
In actuation mechanisms new programme awards 
are, as expected, taking longer to come through, 
leading to a short term decline in overall revenues 
from this product line.
In our cellular and complementary antennae area, the 
beneﬁ ts of increasing unit volumes during the second 
half of 2009 were offset by lower average selling prices, 
both as a result of changes in the product “mix” of 
antennae and customer price-downs. However, we also 
saw a temporary decline in our antennae market share 
in the fourth quarter, as programmes on which we were 
single sourced in the ramp up phase were moved by a 
major customer to being dual sourced.
We currently expect the revenue trends in our product 
lines described above to continue into the ﬁ rst half 
of 2010, before recovering in the second half.
The division’s underlying operating proﬁ t fell 69% in 
the year to £11.7 million (2008, £37.4 million), and 
return on sales fell from 10.7% in 2008 to 4.5% 
in 2009. 
Our customers now include all of the “top ﬁ ve” global 
Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”), and 
we are winning increasing amounts of new business 
from the emerging North American players in the 
“smartphone” segment. We are also consolidating 
our presence with Asian Original Design 
Manufacturers (“ODMs”) and OEMs.
We retain a strong technical and operational 
capability in handset metals (including the emerging 
segment of visual metals) and actuation mechanisms, 
and are increasing our penetration with a number 
of the “top 5” OEMs as well as broadening our 
customer base more generally.
In cellular and complementary antennae we believe, 
based on customer feedback, that we hold the industry 
technology leadership position. A major OEM customer 
has conﬁ rmed to us that we hold this position with 
them, relative to their other suppliers.
We were very active in new product development 
during 2009, which will beneﬁ t us progressively in 2010 
and 2011. We successfully launched our Activv™ 
FM internal antennae, with strong interest from all 
the top 10 OEMs. Close to 8 million phones with this 
technology were sold in 2009. We also developed 
and offered to customers a “full metal cover” 
antenna, a collaboration across product lines that 
uses the external cover of the phone as an antenna, 
enabling greater industrial design freedom and 
improving antenna performance.
We successfully launched our new laser directed 
structuring antennae, a method of applying three 
dimensional antennae patterns onto a plastic 
carrier using an advanced laser system. We also 
broadened our product offering during the year with 
the successful launch of our mobile broadband PC 
antennae products, and our ﬁ rst Long Term Evolution 
(“LTE”, or 4G) platforms.
Operationally, we have increased our own vertical 
integration, offering greater ﬂ exibility to customers 
while preserving margins and reducing inventory. 
Our continuous improvement programmes have 
lowered our cost of quality and improved yields, 
beneﬁ tting margins. We closed our handset products 
manufacturing in Szombathely, Hungary, with 
production successfully transferred to China and India. 
We have at the same time increased our design and 
engineering facilities in Korea, China and Taiwan to 
best position us to serve our local customers.
We expect 2010 to be a year of transition in this 
division, with a rebalancing of revenues across a 
broader customer base, but with continuing beneﬁ ts 
from the cost reduction actions we have taken.   Laird PLC    17
Heading
Laird PLC   17
Wireless Systems
Division
OPERATING REVIEW
We design and supply a range 
of customised, high speciﬁ cation 
wireless antennae, and 
machine-to-machine (“M2M”) 
wireless modules, which can 
include micro-processors and 
embedded software, for the 
infrastructure, automotive and 
transportation, municipal, industrial 
and instrumentation, datacom, 
security, retail and asset 
management markets. 18    Laird PLC
We design and supply a range of customised, 
high speciﬁ cation wireless antennae, and 
machine-to-machine (“M2M”) wireless modules, 
which can include micro-processors and embedded 
software, for the infrastructure, automotive and 
transportation, municipal, industrial and 
instrumentation, datacom, security, retail and 
asset management markets.
Divisional revenues declined by 11% in 2009 to 
£84.9 million (2008, £95.7 million); in US Dollars, 
the year-on-year decline was 25%.
The majority, 57%, of the division’s revenues in 
2009 were from telematics antennae and modules 
into the automotive market, with 34% of revenues 
from the infrastructure, datacom, security and asset 
management sectors, and 9% from sales of our 
wireless M2M modules.
Our telematics antennae product lines suffered 
particularly in the ﬁ rst half of 2009, as a result of the 
general downturn in the automotive industry which 
was ampliﬁ ed by the bankruptcy ﬁ ling by two of the 
division’s major customers. These bankruptcies were 
resolved and this, together with a more general 
recovery in the division’s markets, resulted in revenues 
in the second half of 2009, expressed in US Dollars, 
being up 38% compared with the ﬁ rst half.
Year-on-year, the division experienced a decline in 
revenues across virtually all its markets and product 
lines, although vehicular wireless and Land Mobile 
Radio revenues held up well and in automotive 
telematics we made the ﬁ rst signiﬁ cant penetration 
with the remaining customer in the US “top 3” 
automotive OEMs.
WIRELESS SYSTEMS 2009 REVENUE 
BY MARKET SEGMENT 
IT / Datacom
Transportation / Automotive
Other
WIRELESS SYSTEMS 2009 REVENUE 
BY PRODUCT SEGMENT 
Telematics
Infrastructure and other antennae
Wireless "M2M" modules
Wireless Systems Division
Year ended 2009 2008
31 December H1 H2 Year
 £m £m £m £m
Revenue 37.4 47.5 84.9 95.7
Underlying 
operating proﬁ t 0.3 2.6 2.9 8.0
Return on sales 0.8% 5.5% 3.4% 8.4% Laird PLC    19
We saw a strong recovery during the second half of 
2009 in our automotive telematics, wireless modules 
and WLAN antennae revenues, compared with the 
ﬁ rst half of the year. We also won a number of new 
platforms with the top US and European car makers, 
which will beneﬁ t us in 2011 and 2012.
We are developing our “subsystems” offering in 
telematics, with increasing business in the asset 
tracking, insurance, and credit market sectors. We are 
integrating 802.11, Wireless LAN and Bluetooth into 
our telematics products, broadening the scope of the 
products and providing a greater range of options for 
our customers across various wireless protocols.
Although recovery in our infrastructure antennae 
product lines in the second half of 2009 was more 
muted, particularly in North America, overall we 
saw a progressive growth in revenues through the 
third and fourth quarters of 2009, compared with 
the second quarter. In addition, our development 
of various Bluetooth, Zigbee and proprietary radio 
applications is allowing us to expand our product 
proﬁ le into retail, meter reading and remote 
diagnostic applications. Our focus on geographic 
expansion, notably in Asia, began to produce results 
during the second half of 2009, with further beneﬁ ts 
expected in 2010.
The division’s underlying operating proﬁ t fell 64% in 
the year to £2.9 million (2008, £8.0 million). Return 
on sales fell from 8.4% in 2008 to 3.4% in 2009, with 
the margin decline being caused primarily by the 
overall decline in revenues, as a result of customers 
reducing their car volume projections. However, 
underlying operating proﬁ t recovered well in the 
second half of 2009 (£2.6 million) compared with the 
ﬁ rst half (£0.3 million), as a result of higher revenues 
and the beneﬁ t of cost reductions; return on sales in 
the second half increased to 5.5% compared with 
0.8% in the ﬁ rst half of the year.
We have introduced a number of new products 
during the year, providing greater penetration of 
existing customers as well as broadening the 
customer base. In telematics, for example, we 
have developed a “smart antennae” solution which 
combines cellular and GPS/Satellite antennae, 
wireless modules and input/output interfaces, all 
software controlled. This is allowing us to expand 
considerably our telematics capabilities, beyond our 
traditional satellite digital radio offering.
We also developed a dual band MIMO internal 
antennae family to enhance the latest generation of 
Wireless LAN technology systems, the next generation 
“Stealth II” GPS, and new Bluetooth antennae 
products. We also introduced a new Land Mobile 
Radio family for the China Public Safety market, for 
handheld and vehicular applications. All of these 
products should lead to new, additional revenue in 
2010 and beyond.
Operationally during the year, we closed down 
manufacturing at our New Hampshire, USA facility 
and downsized manufacturing in Illinois, USA, with 
production being expanded in Malaysia and China. 
Overheads across the division have been reduced, 
while design and engineering have been downsized 
in North America and Europe and expanded in 
Malaysia and India.
During 2009 we have been successfully “re-engineering” 
the division, expanding our technology capabilities, 
product range and geographic presence, while 
ensuring a more cost effective manufacturing base. 
We began to see a recovery in revenues in the 
second half of 2009, and we have seen this continue 
into 2010. 20    Laird PLC
Technology and Innovation
We add value to our customers not only by the 
characteristics of products that we sell, but also by 
our science, technology and engineering capabilities 
that we use across a broad range of disciplines, 
applications, products and geographies. In our 
product development we establish and deliver on 
technology roadmaps, that ensure we are at the 
forefront of the technologies demanded by the market. 
Our core areas of technical expertise include basic 
science, product engineering, prototyping, production 
engineering and process engineering. These cover 
such diverse ﬁ elds as heat transfer, electromagnetic 
interference prevention, signal propagation, acoustics, 
metal deposition and processing, polymer processing 
and semiconductor materials. We support our 
customers through our global network of technology, 
engineering and prototyping centres, which can 
operate either independently or as an integrated 
whole, as the customer demands.
Despite the adverse economic environment, our 
investment in R&D in 2009 was £42.8 million before 
£11.1 million of capitalised development, compared 
with £39.0 million in 2008. Expenditure was 8.1% of 
sales in 2009, up from 6.1% in 2008.
Innovation through Continuous Improvement 
The markets in which our products are used typically 
value and require continual reductions in size and 
weight, reducing cost while maintaining or improving 
performance. We address these needs by our new 
product development activities as well as by our 
aggressive continuous improvement approach. By 
taking a disciplined process approach to all stages of 
our operations, and implementing lean manufacturing 
principles, we are able to reduce waste and defects 
and improve efﬁ ciencies. 
A core capability in our Corporate Research Laboratory is 
preparation and analysis of “nano-scale” particles such as 
these bismuth telluride particles for thermoelectric applications.
OPERATING REVIEW For example, through the implementation of a three 
dimensional “plastic printing” process we have 
signiﬁ cantly reduced the time required to make 
prototype parts. By localising the sources for many 
raw materials and components, we have shortened 
our lead times, reduced our working capital, and 
reduced our costs. Through the development of an 
integrated processing system for metal products, 
complicated precision multi-piece products are now
made in a single production line, eliminating all 
queuing of intermediate parts and reducing scrap 
and downtime. 
Continued Development of our 
Technical Footprint
In 2009 we continued to develop our technical 
footprint by expanding the capabilities and locations 
of our engineering and prototyping resources. We 
established a wireless radio design group in Bangalore, 
India, based on the availability of skilled engineers 
there as well as to allow us to customise our product 
for the Indian market. Our thermal engineering 
capabilities were broadened by the establishment 
of broad thermal product engineering capabilities 
in China. We expanded engineering, testing and 
prototyping capabilities in Korea for all of our handset 
products, and established in Shenzhen a centre for 
the development of visual metal products.
Innovation in Technology and 
Product Convergence 
Many of our customers need products that perform 
multiple functions and look to us to integrate a number 
of components into integrated systems. Advanced 
Telematics applications need highly integrated 
solutions combining antennae, wireless modules, 
input/output interfaces and ruggedised mechanical 
design. We are meeting these needs with “Smart 
Antennae”, which combine our multi-functional 
antennae and ampliﬁ ers in innovative packages 
through the integrated design of these systems. 
With our Activv
TM
 FM Combo antennae, functions of 
FM radio, Bluetooth, GPS and WCDMA antennae 
are combined into a single component, allowing 
simpliﬁ cation of the design of signal reception 
and propagation for cellular phones and other 
handheld devices. 
Robust Intellectual Property Portfolio 
Our sustained investment in R&D continues to add to 
our solid intellectual property position. 
We use a combination of trade secrets, patents 
and contractual arrangements in addition to relying 
on copyright and trademark laws to protect our 
intellectual property rights. In 2009 we began a 
fundamental review of our patent portfolio from a 
cost effectiveness perspective, retiring patents where 
we have protection in another form or where our 
developments have progressed to newer technology. 
As a result of this review we had 667 active patents 
at the end of 2009, which includes 73 new patents 
granted in the year, down from 725 at the end of 
2008. The number of patents pending increased to 
708 at the end of 2009, 49% up on 2008, evidencing 
our continued investment in R&D and a commitment 
to seek patent protection for our most valuable 
intellectual property.
Corporate Research Laboratory 
In our Corporate Research Laboratory in Bangalore, 
India, we accelerated our activities centred around 
the development of materials with advanced physical 
and electrical properties. In 2009 we extended 
the number of projects under development to ten 
and these projects address critical needs in each 
of our divisions. Substantial intellectual property 
has been generated by this group in the two years 
since it was formed. Three new materials are in pilot 
scale trials and commercial launch stages, while 
encouraging breakthroughs have been made in 
additional projects.
Laird PLC    21
