 Laird PLC    03   
Strategy
Over recent years Laird has been transformed from 
a diversiﬁ ed industrial group to a focused electronics 
and technology company. We hold, or aim to hold, 
leading positions in specialist markets with long term 
growth characteristics. We possess a broad set of 
complementary proprietary products, obtaining a 
competitive edge through technology and customer 
service allied to a well established low cost 
manufacturing base.
Dividend 
The Board’ s dividend policy is to increase returns to 
shareholders over time, while taking account of both 
the underlying proﬁ tability and cash requirements of 
the business.
The Board believes that a 2009 full year dividend of 
6.0 pence per share (2008, 10.31 pence), is at a level 
which allows funding of growth opportunities while 
pursuing a progressive dividend policy. The Board 
is, accordingly, recommending a ﬁ nal dividend of 
2.53 pence per share (2008, 6.84 pence).
Corporate and Social Responsibility
As a member of the FTSE4Good index, we recognise 
the need to balance our social and environmental 
impacts in a manner that best serves the needs of all 
our stakeholders. We are fully committed to continual 
improvement in all areas of corporate responsibility. 
Further details of the Group’s corporate responsibility 
activities are available in the Corporate Social 
Responsibility section of this report.
Our Employees
We recognise that the expertise, professionalism 
and dedication of our global team are critical to our 
continued innovation and the achievement of our 
objectives and we are grateful for their ﬂ exibility in 
adjusting to the changing demands of our markets. 
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all our 
employees worldwide for their positive attitude and 
commitment during a challenging year.
Outlook
Trading conditions proved to be very challenging in 
2009 and against this background we took decisive 
actions to reduce costs and align our operations to 
the market environment. We also strengthened Laird’s 
balance sheet in the light of the uncertain conditions 
and the limited visibility of customer demand.
By the end of 2009 we had seen some recovery in 
a number of our markets and this, together with the 
beneﬁ ts of our cost reductions, led to a signiﬁ cant 
improvement in underlying proﬁ ts and operating 
margin in the second half of 2009. Operating cash 
conversion was particularly strong in the year.
While the proﬁ le of an economic recovery remains 
uncertain, we have so far in 2010 seen a continuation of 
the trends experienced in the second half of 2009. We 
have a sound ﬁ nancial structure, and we retain leading 
positions in the majority of our markets. We continue to 
expand our customer base, to maintain our investment 
in engineering and new product development, and to 
focus on operational excellence and customer service. 
We believe that the fundamentals of our markets remain 
attractive, and that we are well placed to capitalise 
on opportunities as these markets return to growth.
Chairman’s statement
Nigel Keen
“ The fundamentals of our 
markets remain attractive and 
we are well placed to capitalise 
on opportunities as these 
markets return to growth.”
