 Chairman’s statement
Results and strategic progress
Nigel Keen Chairman
2012 has been a year of signiﬁcant change for Laird
The Group delivered a robust set of results with strong growth in 
proﬁt, outstanding cash conversion, improving margins and increased 
revenues driven from the now fully integrated acquisitions. Revenue 
on an organic basis was level with last year largely as a result of market 
conditions which, with some notable exceptions, remained subdued.
Whilst remaining focused on cash generation, we have continued 
to invest in our business, and brought on additional capacity in 
China during the year. Our focus on providing a high level of service 
and fulﬁlment remains a major strength of our business and this 
excellence continues to deliver results.
In March 2012 we announced the acquisition of two businesses, 
Microwave Materials Group NV (the holding company of Emerson 
& Cuming) and Summit Technologies. Emerson & Cuming has 
allowed us to expand our product range in our Performance Materials 
division and bolster our leading position across the breadth of the 
EMI (electromagnetic interference shielding) market. Summit, 
now integrated into our Wireless Systems division, brings expertise 
in wireless modules used particularly in difﬁcult environments 
for radio communications. In the second half of the year, we 
completed the exit of our Handset Antennae business which had 
been overshadowing the underlying strong performance of our two 
divisions for some time. 
Board changes
As part of our process of Board change, two of our long serving Board 
members, Bill Spivey and Andrew Robb, stepped down at the Annual 
General Meeting in May 2012. I would like to thank Bill and Andrew 
for their invaluable service to the Company. We welcomed Paula 
Bell to the Board in March. Paula, who is also Chairman of our Audit 
Committee, brings a wealth of ﬁnance and business experience.
David Lockwood was appointed Chief Executive with effect from 
13 August 2012. Since David’s appointment there have been a 
number of organisation changes to encourage more collaborative 
working across the business in pursuit of a single vision for the 
Group, which was presented to City stakeholders in a Business 
Review in December 2012. He has also made a number of internal 
organisational changes which allows more collaborative working 
across the business units and enhances the operational culture. 
The senior 250 leaders in Laird attended a working conference to 
explore and understand how, as a collective leadership, more value 
can be delivered to customers and ultimately shareholders.
Dividends
The Board has declared a 2012 ﬁnal year dividend of 6.6 pence 
per share (201 1, 5.3 pence), resulting in a total full year dividend 
of 10.0 pence (201 1, 8.0 pence), in line with our recommendation 
for dividend payments to deliver a compound annual growth rate 
averaging 24 % from 2010 to 2013.
The Board’s dividend policy is to increase returns to shareholders 
over time, while taking account of both the underlying proﬁtability 
and cash requirements of the business.
Employees
We have performed well during the year due to the hard work 
of all our employees, whether it is through innovation, high levels 
of customer service or reliable fulﬁlment. I would like to thank all 
employees for their professionalism and commitment which allows 
us to achieve this goal.
We have a well ﬁnanced business base from which our excellent 
teams can deliver innovative and valuable products to our customers 
around the world. Although we operate in an uncertain economic 
environment we are conﬁdent that we will continue to provide 
increasing value for all our stakeholders now and in the years 
to come.
 
Nigel Keen 
Chairman 
28 February 2013
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
3
