 Chief Executive’s strategic review
Selling value, not price
David Lockwood Chief Executive
 “Laird sells value not price.”
The value that Laird sells is embedded in three 
strategic differentiators – innovation, reliable 
fulﬁlment and speed. These differentiators 
resonate with customers and enable the Group 
to create and capture value. 
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
11 Business review
How will you measure your  
strategic progress?
Within Laird, we ensure our internal strategic measures match with 
our external strategic targets. At the Group, divisional and business 
unit level, our targets for revenue growth, margin improvement 
and customer diversiﬁcation are all aligned to ensure that what we 
have committed externally to the outside world is what we also 
measure internally.
Where do you see the greatest 
opportunities for growth across  
both the Performance Materials  
and Wireless Systems divisions?
We have many diverse opportunities in both the Performance 
Materials and the Wireless Systems divisions. 
Within Performance Materials, there is great scope to grow our 
customer base geographically and to grow in new market sectors, 
whilst adding complementary capabilities to ensure we meet 
the full scope of our customers’ needs. The division focuses on 
selling value not price and targets markets that exhibit long-term 
structural growth. 
The Wireless Systems division operates in a market that is less mature 
than that of the Performance Materials division and therefore faces 
a broader range of strategic options. There is the opportunity to 
move further into sub-system applications (customising ﬁrmware 
and software) and work more collaboratively across our different 
businesses. There are a number of emerging trends in our core 
markets that will create the opportunity for us to grow our scope 
of supply.
How will you fund your strategy  
for growth?
Laird is an inherently cash-generative business. That, combined with 
the strength of our balance sheet, allows us to fund our ambitions for 
investment in R&D, market development and bolt-on acquisitions, 
and at the same time allows us to reafﬁrm our dividend commitment.
Have you already identiﬁed the new 
market segments and geographies you 
want Laird to enter going forward?
Laird has opportunities across both geographic and sectoral markets. 
We have analysed those sectors and geographies by the addressable 
market and our current presence within them. 
Growth markets for our existing businesses include China, Korea and 
Northern Europe, notably Germany. To deploy our business model 
we will ensure that, over time, we grow our engineering presence in 
these selected markets. Similarly, there are major opportunities for 
cross-marketing, taking the full Laird portfolio to existing customers 
or a particular business. Finally, there are attractive adjacent 
markets where our existing customers can provide testament to 
our credentials.
A video of this interview is available to view online at www.laird-plc.com
Chief Executive’s strategic review
Q&A with David Lockwood
David Lockwood, Chief Executive, answers 
questions put to him regarding the 
Company’s strategy
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
12 Chief Executive’s strategic review
Strategy
Laird’s vision is a world where smart technology enables 
virtually everything to sense, think and communicate; 
transforming our way of life and empowering us to do 
more than we can imagine today
Laird creates value by being a trusted partner to our customers, 
delivering useful technology through innovation, reliable fulﬁlment, 
and speed.
A common focus throughout Laird’s diverse product range is reﬂected 
in the value we deliver to our customers. Laird’s products and 
solutions are typically a small, but critical part of the large systems for 
which they are designed. Our customers have neither the extensive 
resources nor time to be experts in, or develop advanced solutions 
in, antenae systems, EMI shielding, or thermal management. Design 
in these areas, however, tends to be vital to the performance and 
protection of the ﬁnal product ensuring that these solutions are 
continually being engineered away from commoditisation. Laird 
is able to not only provide the innovation and collaborative design 
necessary to bring the most advanced technology, but also to deliver 
this in a ﬂawless fashion and at market-pacing speeds. Our customers 
depend on Laird to make sure their products incorporate state-of-the-
art technologies and function beyond expectation. 
Customer 
Mindshare
Speed 
Reliable Fulﬁlment 
Innovation 
Our differentiation
Innovation in new capabilities and 
collaborative design
As a partner in designing communication and electronics protection 
solutions, Laird must deliver new technology to our customers. This 
includes the use of the latest material innovations in areas such as 
metal alloys and polymer composites; new process capabilities like 
automated assembly and antennae designed through artiﬁcial 
intelligence; and new applications expertise including interconnects 
and high-noise RF communications. Laird is able to bring these broad 
palettes of solutions to customers across all its market segments. 
We are committed to technology innovation, demonstrated by our 
sustained level of R&D investment. (See KPIs on pages 24 and 25).
Reliable fulﬁlment means providing the 
highest levels of delivery, quality, safety, 
and compliance
Regardless of how novel or advanced Laird’s designs and capabilities 
are, the cost of any error in delivering the products to customers can 
far exceed the value of the design. Beyond simply being a conﬁdent 
choice for our customers, Laird also brings high levels of business 
reliability and security. By having processes and systems in place 
and through driving a culture of performance and risk management, 
Laird can ensure that it delivers reliably for customers.
Our speed allows our customers to exceed 
expectations in launching their products
Laird’s customers often face rapid product launch cycles. Competition 
along with business and consumer expectations is relentlessly driving 
compression of these timelines. Complementing the innovative 
solutions and assured delivery of our products, Laird drives market-
pacing speed through the design and delivery cycle. From product 
development timelines to initial customer engagements involving 
design iterations, prototypes and quotes through scale-up and 
production ramps, Laird offers more than being faster than other 
suppliers. We set the pace and exceed the expectations of the 
market. Our customers respond by adapting their product cycles to 
take advantage of Laird’s capabilities further setting the Company 
apart from the rest of the pack and reinforcing Laird’s position as a 
critical design partner.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
13 Business review
Growth through strategic acquisition
As Laird pursues its strategy to win customer mindshare, a number 
of opportunities arise to acquire capabilities or market access in new 
business areas that ﬁt the overall strategic direction. As the Wireless 
Systems division seeks to add value through the management of 
information, new software and applications will be vital to allow us 
to expand our available market. The Performance Materials division 
will look to add new product and technology groups to its portfolio of 
capabilities, bringing even more value to customers and allow further 
access to new market segments and regions of the world. 
Our strong balance sheet allows us the opportunity to pursue further 
acquisition opportunities (see Financial KPIs on pages 24 and 25 
(Net Debt: EBITDA and cash generation)). 
Customer diversiﬁcation 
We have built up long-standing relationships with our larger 
customers, developing alongside them. Our strategy is to remain 
diversiﬁed, serving a broad customer base across different market 
segments and geographies.
We understand the global trends driving growth in the wider market, 
such as changing energy requirements and ubiquitous connectivity. 
Our aim is to ensure we serve a wide range of customers across these 
high-growth market sectors.
Chief Executive’s strategic review
Strategy
Delivering against our strategy
Our Business Model drives our teams constantly to review the proﬁle 
of our businesses and direct strategic decisions, whilst our targets 
emphasise our strategic ambitions.
We have set targets that benchmark our progress, and in 2012, 
we have improved operating margin, despite a lower growth 
environment. We remain conﬁdent that we are positioned in the right 
markets for organic growth over the medium to long-term, and this 
will drive further proﬁt improvement. In support of our organic growth 
ambitions we are increasing investment in targeted innovation and 
market entry strategies.
Internally, we are rolling out an enhanced programme of governance 
which will bring beneﬁts in 2013, and will ensure our risk mitigation 
and identiﬁcation processes are much closer aligned to our strategy. 
(The risk framework is explained more in the Governance section on 
pages 53 and 54.)
Strategic outlook
In 2012, signiﬁcant progress has been made to focus 
the Company on its three primary sources of sustainable 
differentiation – innovation, reliable fulﬁlment and speed. These 
are also the qualities that are most valued by Laird’s customers.
The Company sells into global market segments with attractive 
growth prospects. This, together with Laird’s clear strategic focus 
and increase in investment, provides a good platform from which 
to deliver its medium to long-term targets.
We expect ﬁrst quarter revenues to be at a similar level to last 
year as we continue to see the impact of our exit from lower 
margin business and as customers adjust inventory in their 
supply chains. We expect revenues to be weighted towards the 
second half of the year, as a result of our and our customers’ 
product launches and seasonal factors, and we are conﬁdent of 
making good progress in 2013.
The Group has a strong balance sheet and demonstrable cash 
generation characteristics to fund further acquisitions, and drive 
further value for shareholders by enhancing Laird’s capabilities 
and market access.
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
14 Thought leadership
A smart world allows people the freedom 
they increasingly require to work remotely.
Not only can people work from home, but 
employees can move around their ofﬁce 
or different company locations, accessing 
documents and emails with ease.
The rise in remote working will not only 
drive technology sales but have a cultural 
impact on the way people interact with one 
another. Companies are moving towards a 
‘bring your own device’ paradigm which will 
enable easier and more efﬁcient business 
while travelling. Opportunities will arise, 
driven by this paradigm shift, for product 
and services supporting security, network 
backbone and storage.
In the past, companies have tended to 
refresh their IT infrastructure equipment 
periodically or in line with regular 
budget cycles. Some companies are now 
encouraging employees to use portable 
equipment, such as tablets, and purchasing 
these more frequently to reﬂect the latest 
innovation in technology. 
Liberating work from the workplace 
implies access to information wherever 
and whenever, enabled by a variety of 
go-anywhere devices. Laird’s continuing 
innovation in Wireless Systems and 
Performance Materials underpins the 
mobile workplace. Laird is a market leader 
in wireless infrastructure, in-vehicle systems 
and radio modules that enable mobile 
connectivity, and our shielding, thermal 
management, power storage and signal 
integrity solutions are relied upon in 
smaller, lighter and faster mobile devices. 
Laird does not just beneﬁt from the trend 
towards mobile work, Laird helps to shape it. 
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
15 STOCK IMAGE
Case study
Increasing use of mobile data can be 
a challenge, especially in environments 
such as stadia where tens of thousands of 
people demand connected Wi-Fi. Not only 
do stadia have to cater to users, they need 
to maintain connectivity for business use 
such as point of sale and ticket scanning.
Laird’s Wi-Fi modules are embedded into 
ticket scanners and point of sale machines 
in a growing number of stadia such as the 
Gillette Stadium, home of the New England 
Patriots, allowing devices to maintain Wi-Fi 
reliability with enterprise-grade security. 
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
16
