 Overview
Performance Materials
What we do
The division designs and supplies a full range of 
electromagnetic interference (EMI) shielding materials, 
thermal management solutions and signal integrity 
products (SIP), providing critical protection for a wide 
range of electronic devices, allowing them to function 
and connect effectively. These products isolate and 
protect sensitive electronic components and systems 
from the electronic emissions and stop them from 
interacting with other components, and ﬁlter and 
remove electromagnetic ‘noise’ and improve a device’s 
performance through the efﬁcient management of heat.
Markets
Our Performance Materials products are supplied to 
a broad range of markets including IT and telecom, 
handsets, medical and automotive. 
Laird has two divisions, Performance Materials and Wireless Systems
Group at a glance
1. IT/Telecom 35%
2. Handset 25%
3. Other 23%
4. Consumer 8%
5. Medical 5%
6. Transportation 4%
Revenue by market segment
1
6
5
4
3
2
Revenue
+6% (2011, £305.0 million)
£324.7 million
Our products explained
EMI
Electronic devices give off electromagnetic 
emissions as a by-product of electrical or 
magnetic activity that can interfere with the 
operation of other devices. EMI shielding 
products isolate sensitive apparatus from 
these electromagnetic ﬁelds.
Thermal Management
Electronic applications generate heat that 
can adversely affect a device’s performance. 
Our thermal management materials and 
active cooling solutions provide a way to 
manage and actively control heat in a variety 
of electronic applications.
Signal Integrity
Our ferrite-based product family preserves 
high quality signal integrity by removing 
and ﬁltering unwanted or harmful 
electromagnetic ‘noise’ generated by 
active components such as oscillators and 
microprocessors, as well as EMI escaping 
from any electronic product through DC 
(direct current) power lines.
Laird PLC / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
6 Wireless Systems
What we do
Laird designs, manufactures and supplies a broad 
range of products, systems, and software solutions that 
enable wireless communication such as antennae, 
embedded wireless modules, telematics products, M2M 
devices, wireless automation and control systems, along 
with software solutions to support asset management 
systems across a broad range of markets.
Markets
Our Wireless Systems products are supplied to a wide 
range of customers requiring reliable connectivity 
solutions in the automotive, rail, ﬂeet management, 
industrial, telecom, WLAN, public safety, medical and 
mining markets. 
1. Transportation 58%
2. Industrial 21%
3. IT/Telecom 17%
4. Other 4%
Revenue by market segment
1
3
4
2
Revenue
+5% (2011, £186.3 million)
£1 95.5 million
Our products explained
Telematics/M2M
We design and manufacture industry-
leading smart antennae solutions, combining 
advanced, low-proﬁle antennae with wireless 
radios, I/O circuitry and ﬁrmware to enable 
applications from asset tracking to pay-as-
you-drive insurance, from ﬂeet management 
to theft recovery.
Wireless Automation and Control 
The high-reliability wireless remote control 
systems that we design and supply, serve 
the railroad, mining, and industrial markets 
globally. These remote control systems are 
speciﬁcally designed for any equipment 
where the operator can remotely operate the 
asset from a safer location. We also provide 
fully hosted networked applications software 
that enables customers to monitor their 
remote controlled assets in real-time.
Infrastructure Antennae
We provide high performance indoor and 
outdoor antennae solutions. In-building 
wireless antennae are particularly applicable 
in environments where aesthetics and 
wide angle coverage are necessary for 
successful wireless deployment. Their 
small size allows them to be hidden almost 
anywhere, providing an invisible solution 
for most applications.
Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 / Laird PLC
7
