 14 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chief Executive’ s review
“ 2013 ended with a strong second half. 
2014 has commenced with year on year 
growth consistent with our constant currency 
expectations for the full year. 
The good progress we have made has been 
grounded in the investments executing 
our strategy and delivering strategic 
differentiation. This has deepened our 
relationships with existing customers and 
allowed us to win new customers and 
develop new markets. It is this strategic 
progress that underpins our confidence for 
2014 and beyond. 
2014 will see more benefits from innovation, 
particularly in Wireless Systems, delivered 
in the second half. This includes the 
commencement of already secured 
contracts for next generation M2M products. 
Our investment in manufacturing capacity 
in new territories, such as Vietnam, supports 
Performance Materials growth in the second 
half. As a result, as in 2013, we expect 2014 
to be second half weighted.”
David Lockwood 
Chief Executive
016933_LAIRD_AR_13_p01-29_v16.indd   14 07/03/2014   19:13 15 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Achievements against our strategic objectives  
in 2013
 – We have defined our strategic differentiation: innovation, 
reliable fulfilment and speed, with the business now focused 
on these capabilities in day-to-day operations (see case 
studies on pages 21 to 27)
 – We are diversifying our customer base, within and between 
market segments
 – We sell into global market segments with attractive growth 
prospects (see pages 28 and 29 for an independent view on 
market trends)
 – We have increased investment to drive sustained innovation 
(see Financial review on page 46)
 – We are expanding our geographic reach (see map on pages  
6 and 7)
 – Strategic decisions are systematically and consistently aligned 
to our Business Model for organic and inorganic growth 
through product and market expansion (see Business Model 
on page 8)
Differentiation
At the end of 2012 we set out in our Business Review 
presentation how we create and capture value through our 
strategic differentiation of innovation, reliable fulfilment and 
speed. A key initiative in 2013 has been to communicate this 
mission to our stakeholders. Our employees are focused on 
delivering our differentiation and understand it will drive market 
share and profitable growth. Our customers in turn, recognise 
our differentiation and that is how and why we are winning new 
business. 
Diversification of customer base 
Sector and customer diversification will even out the seasonal 
fluctuations in revenue which tend to be driven by the demands 
of the consumer market and will, over the longer-term, drive 
higher capacity utilisation and greater efficiency. 
We have focused on penetrating new market segments and 
geographies as well as selling more products (collaborative 
selling across our businesses) to existing customers, with 
tangible evidence of the successful execution of this strategy 
noted in our Operating review on pages 41 to 45.
Geographic reach
We said we would focus on China, Korea and Northern Europe. 
We have made clear progress in China with industrial and 
automotive customers and won new long-term automotive 
contracts with leading German automotive OEMs.
In December 2012 we said that our market entry strategy 
to significantly penetrate the Korean market would take at 
least a year to deliver, as we needed to assess and review 
our options and invest resources in stepping up our strategic 
account engagement. In January 2014, it was announced that 
a new plant in Vietnam would be established, which will work 
in conjunction with a Business Design Centre in Korea. This 
initiative is expected to contribute to revenue growth in 2014 
and the expansion of our geographic footprint will create further 
opportunities with new and existing customers (see our 2014 
strategic objectives on page 17).
Sustained innovation
Our increased level of R&D investment has brought new contract 
wins as customers continue to reward us for the innovation we 
provide. Notable examples include contracts with automotive 
and telecom customers for whom we have provided innovative 
solutions for technically challenging products, as well as 
continuing to be a design partner with smartphone customers 
on next generation models. 
The positive impact from increased R&D in our Performance 
Materials division, which has relatively short product lifecycles, 
helped drive differentiation in 2013 and is expected to 
contribute to new business wins in 2014. For the Wireless 
Systems division, product cycle and qualification periods are 
longer. For both divisions, the adherence to product roadmaps 
is much improved, bringing new products to markets at a 
faster pace. 
Business Model alignment
The Business Model has been clearly defined and provides the 
framework for our business leaders to execute our strategy. 
Further explanation of how the Business Model is aligned to  
our strategy is set out on page 12. 
Enhanced governance framework
Another strategic focus in 2013 has been to enhance our 
governance and risk mitigation framework. Governance as well 
as culture, leadership, strategy and operating model, comprise 
the five foundational pillars that align the leadership within our 
business. This is illustrated on page 16.
016933_LAIRD_AR_13_p01-29_v16.indd   15 07/03/2014   19:13 16 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Our culture
The organisation has become more collaborative and operates 
under the ‘One Laird’ approach.
Culture Statement
‘ We work as a global team of talented individuals to  
make a difference to our employees, business partners,  
and our world.
We have an unwavering commitment to being honest and 
ethical in all situations and treating each other with dignity 
and respect.
We create an open and engaging environment that 
thrives on high energy, adaptability and delivering on our 
commitments.
Laird is a great place with great opportunities for personal 
and professional growth for those who work hard, are willing 
to learn and deliver results.’
In order to facilitate the Company’s new direction and to 
empower leaders within our organisation, a Leadership team 
was formed which is comprised of the most senior managers 
across Laird. The team meets three times per year, provides a 
key forum for networking and collaboration and is a driving force 
in implementing the strategy and embracing the new culture. 
The Leadership team also forms part of the Management team 
which meets annually and comprises the top 200 managers. 
This team reaches deeper into the organisation to embed the 
culture, to cascade the strategy and provide guidance and 
leadership to the whole organisation. 
Events in 2013 included:
 – A Management Conference held in January in California,  
our first ever Global Supplier Conference held in September  
in Shanghai and conferences for the Leadership team held  
in Hong Kong and Shanghai.
Chief Executive’s review continued
See further information as to the composition of our Board on 
pages 54 and 55 and within our Diversity section of the CSR 
report on page 37.
In the second half of 2013, we appointed a Chief Strategy & 
Technology Officer. His appointment provides further strategic 
direction at business unit level. He has already made an impact 
by reviewing strategic route maps and ensuring that the 
decisions taken define our value to customers and are aligned  
to overall Company strategy.
CEO
Executives
Leadership team
Management team
Whole organisation
Operational leadership structure and the five pillars 
Governance
Operating model
Culture
Leadership
Strategy
Changes were made to our organisation structure at the end of 2012 
to best facilitate the Company’s new direction and to empower leaders 
within our organisation. In 2013, the structure has allowed employees 
to work more closely together and attend events tailored for each group 
such as Leadership events and the annual Management Conference.
016933_LAIRD_AR_13_p01-29_v16.indd   16 07/03/2014   19:13 17 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 – Continue to diversify within and between market sectors
 – Increase the number of significant customers across the Company
 – In 2013: 5 customers over 
$25m (2012, 4 customers)
 – 8 customers between 
$10m and $25m (2012,  
6 customers)
 – 57 customers between 
$1m and $10m
 – (2012, 64 customers)
Customer 
diversification
2014 objectives Strategic focus KPIs
 – Increasing use of automation processes
 – Precision engineering focus and Business Design Centres rollout
 – Reliable sampling and rapid prototyping (goal to provide within 24 hours) 
 – Demonstrating our value to protect pricing
 – Continue to build the right key relationships between Laird senior personnel 
and customers
 – Revenue and margin 
growth
 – Internal target for low 
DPPM (default parts  
per million)
Drive strategic 
differentiation 
(see case studies on pages 
21 to 27 highlighting how our 
innovation, reliable fulfilment 
and speed capabilities have 
won us business in 201 3)
 – Accelerated product roadmaps
 – Drive collaboration and innovation 
 – Expansion of Business Design Centres providing local on-the-ground 
innovation support
 – R&D
 – Scorecard: number 
of granted patents 
has increased to 665 
(December 2012, 570)
 – Reduction in sampling 
lead times
Focus on 
innovation
 – Continue to identify and penetrate new market segments and geographic 
markets
 – Target top tier OEMs in select vertical markets
 – Penetration of new 
market segments and 
geographies
market entry 
strategies 
See ‘Our community 
involvement’ in our CSR 
report on pages 38 to 40 as 
to how we work with people 
in areas where we have a 
significant business presence
 – Continue to empower leadership teams to ensure managers have the 
autonomy to make business decisions quickly
 – Further collaborative working
 – Encourage people to assess opportunity in the light of our long-term vision, 
rather than as incremental adjustments to where we are today
 – Revenue growth
 – See ‘Recognising and 
rewarding performance’ 
section in the CSR report 
on page 35
Changing 
our Company 
culture
Strategy
Achievements for 2014
We have both key performance indicators and a company strategic scorecard which provides metrics against performance. 
Further detail on KPIs can be found on pages 19 and 20.
016933_LAIRD_AR_13_p01-29_v16.indd   17 07/03/2014   19:13 18 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Continued focus in 2014
Strategic outlook summary
in early 2014 we announced our expansion  
in new territories within Asia. 
Penetrating the Korean market was one of our 
strategic priorities for 2013, allowing us to diversify 
our customer base and serve Korean customers 
with local operations. Such proximity underpins 
our ability to manufacture reliably and our speed 
of delivery. A new manufacturing facility has been 
established near Hanoi, Vietnam and further 
manufacturing support will be provided from our 
existing site in Shenzhen, China.
In order to engage with customers as design 
partners on innovation we are also expanding  
our Business Design Centre in Seoul.
manufacturing 
facility near 
Hanoi, 
Vietnam
Design Centre  
in Seoul,  
korea
Further manu-
facturing support 
from Shenzhen, 
China
Chief Executive’s review continued
Laird’s growth will come from a number of key drivers:
 – From being in attractive end markets – through clear 
market entry strategies and by progressing our customer 
diversification 
 – Having a disciplined approach to investment decisions
 – Maximising market positions through our strategic 
differentiation 
 – Working collaboratively to sell a comprehensive solution to 
existing customers, and executing well
 – Continuing to build strong relationships with our key 
customers
 – Ensuring continued adherence to product and technology 
roadmaps and being focused on innovation
 – Continued investment for sustainable growth that is customer 
informed and market led
 – Ensuring Laird attracts and retains the best talent who will 
continue to drive forward our cultural change 
David Lockwood 
Chief Executive
016933_LAIRD_AR_13_p01-29_v16.indd   18 07/03/2014   19:13
