 4 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group at a glance
 What we do
 Performance Materials
What we do 
The division designs and supplies a full range of 
electromagnetic interference (EMI) shielding materials, 
thermal management solutions and signal integrity products 
(SIP), providing critical protection for a wide range of 
electronic devices, allowing them to function and connect 
effectively. These products isolate and protect sensitive 
electronic components and systems from electronic emissions 
and stop them from interacting with other components,  
and filter and remove electromagnetic ‘noise’ and improve  
a device’s performance through the efficient management  
of heat.
Markets
Our Performance Material products are supplied to a broad 
range of markets including IT and telecom, smartphone, 
consumer, medical and transportation. 
 Wireless Systems
What we do 
The division designs, manufactures and supplies a broad 
range of products, systems, and software solutions that 
enable wireless communication such as antennae, embedded 
wireless modules, telematics products, M2M devices, wireless 
automation and control systems, along with software 
solutions to support asset management systems across a 
broad range of markets.
Markets
Our Wireless Systems products are supplied to a wide range 
of customers requiring reliable connectivity solutions in 
markets such as transportation, industrial and IT/telecom.
Laird has two divisions, Performance Materials and Wireless 
Systems. The divisions share certain technologies – for example, 
Radio Frequency (RF) engineering – facilities in key regions and 
corporate resources. They collaborate in addressing certain 
common markets such as automotive and IT infrastructure. 
Revenue
£194.2m
–1 % (2012, £195.5m)
Revenue
£342.8m
+6 % (2012, £324.7m)
Revenue by market segment
Revenue by market segment
Our differentiation capabilities of innovation,  
reliable fulfilment and speed are prevalent across both divisions
Both divisions partner with our customers  
as an extension of their design process
Transportation 
Industrial
IT/Telecom 
Other
6 1 %
16%
1 9 %
4 %
IT/Telecom 
Smartphone
Other
Consumer 
Medical 
Transportation
24%
20%
35 %
10%
6% 5%
Collaboration 
is key
016933_LAIRD_AR_13_p01-29_v17.indd   4 11/03/2014   18:04 5 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Our products
Our products
Part of our strategy is to ensure our strategic differentiation 
(of innovation, reliable fulfilment and speed) is valued by our 
customers. Through the businesses collaborating together we 
can offer a more comprehensive range of solutions to customers 
and ensure we maintain our competitive position.
Customers recognise our precision engineering  
capability across the whole of our business
Our divisions share economies 
of scale in our R&D and supply chain
Emi
Electronic devices give off 
electromagnetic emissions as a 
by-product of electrical or magnetic 
activity that can interfere with 
the operation of other devices. 
EMI shielding products isolate 
sensitive apparatus from these 
electromagnetic fields. 
Thermal management
Electronic applications generate 
heat that can adversely affect a 
device’s performance. Our thermal 
management materials and active 
cooling solutions provide a way to 
manage and actively control heat in 
a variety of electronic applications.
Signal i ntegrity
Our ferrite-based product family 
preserves high quality signal integrity 
by removing and filtering unwanted 
or harmful electromagnetic 
‘noise’ generated by active 
components such as oscillators 
and microprocessors, as well as 
EMI escaping from any electronic 
product through DC (direct current) 
power lines.
Telematics/m2m
We design and manufacture 
industry-leading smart antennae 
solutions, combining advanced, 
low-profile antennae with wireless 
radios, Input/Output (IO) circuitry 
and firmware to enable applications 
from asset tracking to pay-as-you-
drive insurance and from fleet 
management to theft recovery.
Wireless Automation and Control
The high-reliability wireless remote 
control systems that we design and 
supply, serve the railroad, mining, 
and industrial markets globally. 
These remote control systems 
are specifically designed for any 
equipment where the operator can 
remotely operate heavy machinery 
from a safer location. We also 
provide fully hosted networked 
applications software that enables 
customers to monitor their remote 
controlled assets in real-time.
i nfrastructure Antennae
We provide high performance 
indoor and outdoor antennae 
solutions. In-building wireless 
antennae are particularly applicable 
in environments where aesthetics 
and wide angle coverage are 
necessary for successful wireless 
deployment. Their small size 
allows them to be hidden almost 
anywhere, providing an invisible 
solution for most applications.
016933_LAIRD_AR_13_p01-29_v16.indd   5 07/03/2014   19:12
