 13 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Results
There was little change in underlying profits year on year, but 
after a softer first half we delivered a much stronger second half 
of the year and exited 2013 with good momentum. 
Board changes
We have made further changes to refresh the Laird Board in 
2013.
Jack Boyer joined the Board in May. After serving nine years as a 
non-executive director, Tony Reading retired in August. Tony was 
succeeded by Jack as Chair of the Remuneration Committee. 
Following Tony’s departure, Paula Bell was appointed Senior 
Independent Director. I would like to thank Tony for his service.
In November we also announced that I would be stepping down 
as Chairman at the Annual General Meeting in May this year 
and will be succeeded by Dr Martin Read. Martin will join the 
Laird Board on 28 February and I am very much looking forward 
to working with him for the remaining few months to ensure  
a smooth handover.
I have served as Chairman for over ten years –a period of 
considerable change at Laird. More recently I have overseen 
the transition of the Laird Board, including the appointment of 
David Lockwood as Chief Executive in 2012. I have no doubt 
under David’s leadership that I am leaving the Company in 
good hands and it is an exciting time for all of our stakeholders. 
I would like to give personal thanks to everyone I have worked 
with over the years as Chairman and as a non-executive director 
prior to that.
Dividends
The Board has declared a 2013 final year dividend of 7.9p 
per share (2012, 6.6p), resulting in a total full year dividend of 
12.0p (2012, 10.0p), in line with the Board’s recommendation 
made in 2011.
The Board’s future dividend policy is to increase returns to 
shareholders over time, while taking account of both the 
underlying profitability and cash requirements of the business.
Outlook 
Trading in 2014 has started as expected. As in 2013, we expect 
revenue to be second half weighted. Executing well on our 
strategy underpins our confidence for growth in the year.
Nigel Keen 
Chairman
27 February 2014 
Strategic progress 
In 2013 we have made much strategic progress throughout the 
whole organisation. Under the leadership of David Lockwood, 
Laird teams have been focusing on the technology development 
and innovation they can provide to our customers, delivered 
through best in class manufacturing and through consistent 
levels of speed in delivery. This progress is reflective of the way 
the whole company has acknowledged, and been motivated 
by, our strategy to create and capture value to our customers 
through our strategic differentiation in target identified growth 
markets, together with technology development through 
increased investment in R&D. 
Our governance programme ensures operational activity is 
reviewed and measured to help chart our progress as a business, 
whilst staying focused on our strategic objectives. See the 
Corporate Governance section on page 56 for more information.
Employees
Our employees are Laird’s best assets. As I have travelled round 
the business this year I have consistently seen how committed 
they are to developing innovation opportunities for new 
products. They have also been encouraged by working together 
more collaboratively under the ‘One Laird’ brand to deliver 
solutions to our customers, whilst continuing to provide the high 
levels of service for which Laird is known. 
There have been a number of strategic changes to Laird’s 
culture this year, such as increased collaboration between 
business units. To manage these changes, whilst staying 
committed to our customers, is testament to our employees’ 
dedication and is what will help us bring further good results  
and I would like to thank everyone for their efforts throughout 
the year.
Chairman’ s statement
016933_LAIRD_AR_13_p01-29_v16.indd   13 07/03/2014   19:13
