 Over the past two years, we have 
focused on investing in innovation 
and diversifying our customer base. 
Customers rely on our design teams 
to develop innovative product 
solutions, from product conception 
through to efficient manufacturing. 
This strategic focus has resulted in 
increased business from both new 
and existing customers, diversifying 
our customer base.
Investing for growth 
Our products provide mission-critical 
protection and connectivity in harsh and 
demanding operating environments for Radio 
Frequency (RF) technology. Our products 
are used in a wide range of applications and 
end markets, from smartphones, automotive, 
and medical applications to large scale 
installations for railways, ports, mines and 
military uses.
Our engineers work closely with customers 
designing bespoke solutions that capture value 
for both the customer and for our business. 
Our design centres and manufacturing 
facilities, located worldwide on three 
continents, enable us to respond quickly to 
customers’ requirements, from innovative 
design to reliable fulfilment and speed.
Strong financial performance with 
good organic growth for the year
• 5% increase in total revenue in Sterling to £564.9m
1
 
(£2013, £537.0m).
• 8% organic
2
 increase in revenue.
• 12% increase in operating profit in US$.
• 9% organic growth in Performance Materials, driven 
by strong performances in smartphones and mobile 
LTE/4G investment.
• 8% organic growth in Wireless Systems, driven by 
automotive/M2M applications.
• 5% increase in underlying profit before tax
3
 to £63.2m 
(2013, £60.1m) after increased investment in R&D and 
a £4m currency headwind.
• Full year dividend increased by 4%. Proposed final 
dividend per share of 8.23p (2013, 7.90p). 
Delivering against our strategy 
for growth and creating value
• Successfully delivered on our strategy to diversify 
our customer base with 6 customers over $25m in 
revenues (2013, 5 customers) and 79 customers over 
$1m (2013, 70 customers).
• Six consecutive quarters of organic revenue growth.
• Innovation and customer mindshare underpinned 
by 10% increase in gross R&D investment to $81.9m 
(2013, $74.4m). Expanded production footprint with 
new factories in China, Vietnam and the United States 
and a new design centre in South Korea.
• Successful acquisition of Model Solution in South 
Korea, opening up new markets and customers.
Performance highlights
We continue to deliver against our strategy
of investing for growth
1
 Translated at $1.65/£ which is the average exchange rate over the year 
(2013, $1.56/£).
2
 Organic revenue growth is defined as the prior year’s base revenue 
including revenue from newly acquired companies as if we had owned 
those acquired companies for the same period in the prior year. 
Total revenue is based on the absolute increase in revenue from the 
prior year including newly acquired companies without adjustment.
3
 Underlying profit before tax and earnings per share are stated before 
exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, goodwill and 
US capitalised development costs, gain/loss on disposal of businesses, 
impact arising from fair valuing of financial instruments and acquisition 
transaction costs. 
2
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial highlights
Good diversification of our customer base
Revenue
+8% organic growth
2
 
+11% total growth 
2014 2013
$932.0m
$839.8m
 
Revenue
1
 
+5% total growth 
2014 2013
£564.9m
£537.0m
 
Statutory profit  
after tax
+63% 
2014 2013
£50.2m
£30.8m
 
Underlying profit  
before tax
+5% 
2014 2013
£63.2m
£60.1m
Operating margin
 
 
2014 2013
12.6%
12.5%
 
Underlying basic earnings 
per share (pence)
+3% 
2014 2013
19.1p
18.6p
 
Dividends per share 
(pence)
+4% 
2014 2013
12.5p
12.0p
 
Over $25m
2014 2013
6
5 
 
$10m – $25m
2014 2013
8  8
 
$1m – 10m
2014 2013
65 
 57
 
 $932.0m  £564.9m  £50.2m  £63.2m
 12.6%  19.1p  12.5p
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
3
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Laird at a glance
We protect electronics and enable connectivity
in mission-critical applications
 Performance Materials 
We design and supply a full range of electromagnetic 
interference (EMI) shielding materials, thermal 
management solutions and signal integrity products 
(SIP). Our products provide critical protection for a 
wide range of electronics, allowing them to function 
and connect effectively. These products isolate and 
protect sensitive electronics from interference and 
stop them from interacting with other components. 
Our Performance Materials products are supplied to 
a broad range of markets including IT and telecom, 
smartphones, automotive, industrial applications, 
consumer and medical. Product life cycles in 
Performance Materials tend to be 12-18 months for 
products such as smartphones, often with large 
scale product launches. Our customers value 
highly our ability to develop innovative design 
solutions combined with high production capacity 
whilst meeting exacting quality standards (reliable 
fulfilment) and speed of response throughout the 
design and fulfilment process.
 Wireless Systems
Our Wireless Systems products enable mission-
critical connectivity and remote smart systems, with 
primary markets in automotive, telecoms, industrial 
and medical. Reliable connectivity is mission-
critical in environments such as transport, industrial 
applications, military and medicine. Our ability to 
deliver innovative solutions in the field of wireless 
connectivity reliably contributes to our strong 
customer mindshare. 
We design, manufacture and supply a broad range 
of products and solutions that enable wireless 
communication such as antennae, embedded 
wireless modules, telematics products, M2M devices, 
wireless automation and control systems, along with 
software solutions to support asset management 
systems in specialised industrial applications. 
Revenue by market segment
1
2
3
4
5
6
1. IT/Telecom 31%
2. Smartphone 28%
3. Other industrial 21%
4. Consumer 9%
5. Transportation 6%
6. Medical 5%
Revenue
$604.0m
+13% 
(2013, $536.2m)
£366.1m
+7% 
(2013, £342.8m)
Revenue
$328.0m
+8% 
(2013, $303.6m)
£198.8m
+2% 
(2013, £194.2m)
Revenue by market segment
1
2
3
4
1. Transport 61%
2. IT/Telecom 20%
3. Industrial 15%
4. Other 4%
4
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The challenge Our solutions
How we protect electronics Solutions
Electro-Magnetic Shielding
Electronic devices give off electromagnetic emissions 
as a by-product of electrical or magnetic activity 
that can interfere with performance. EMI shielding 
products isolate sensitive apparatus from these 
electromagnetic fields. 
The complexities of today’s electronics pose several design 
challenges. Protecting and isolating radio frequencies needs 
to be balanced with product constraints on space, weight 
and production capabilities. Our board level shielding 
expertise encompasses all phases of development, from 
design, rapid prototyping and pre-production through to 
final production and automated packaging.
Thermal Management Electronic applications generate heat that 
can adversely affect a device’s performance. Our 
thermal management materials and active cooling 
solutions provide a way to manage and actively 
control heat in a variety of electronic applications.
As a leader in thermoelectric management applications, 
we design and manufacture some of the world’s highest-
rated, thermally conductive materials for telecoms, 
instrumentation, and other industrial applications. Our 
Thermal Interface Materials (TIMs) soften and conform 
at operating temperatures to dramatically increase the 
removal of heat and so deliver more reliable operation. Our 
skilled engineers also combine this expertise with in-house 
design, assembly, and manufacturing expertise. 
Signal Integrity Our ferrite-based product family preserves high 
quality signal integrity by removing and filtering 
unwanted or harmful electromagnetic ‘noise’ 
generated by active components such as oscillators 
and microprocessors, as well as signal interference 
escaping from any electronic product through direct 
(DC) power lines.
Ferrite materials exhibit varying magnetic properties 
depending on the frequency at which they are excited. 
By changing the composition of ferrite, it is possible 
to enhance attenuation in selected frequency ranges. 
We have developed a family of ferrites with varying 
compositions to allow the user to manage every type 
of application, from pulse transformers to ground 
fault interrupters.
 
Telematics/M2M We are a global leader in the design, manufacture 
and delivery of automotive antennas, with state-of-
the-art designs including satellite radio, GPS, cellular, 
AM/FM, on-glass, amplifiers, Bluetooth and DAB to 
enable a range of wireless connectivity applications 
– from asset tracking to pay-as-you drive insurance 
and from fleet management to theft recovery. Our 
wireless communications capabilities are world class, 
recognising the multiple design and specification 
requirements that individual Original Equipment 
Manufacturers (OEMs) and vehicle models demand. 
We custom-engineer our antennae specifically for each 
customer, designed to optimise the RF environment for 
each vehicle’s connectivity requirements. For vehicular 
Telematics/M2M applications, we manufacture wireless 
Bluetooth and Wi-Fi radio modules, including custom 
power levels and extended-range versions for original 
equipment manufacturers and commercial applications.
Wireless Automation  
and Control
The high-reliability wireless remote control systems 
that we design and supply serve railways, mining, 
and industrial markets globally. These remote control 
systems are specifically designed for any equipment 
where the operator can remotely operate heavy 
machinery from a safer location. We also provide 
fully hosted networked applications software that 
enables customers to monitor their remote controlled 
assets in real-time.
We have state of the art remote control applications for 
cranes, railway systems, material handling equipment, 
mining machinery, mobile equipment, shiploaders, 
agricultural machinery, and virtually any equipment where 
the operator can be moved to a safer, more efficient location. 
The reliability of our wireless connectivity solutions is critical 
to proving a safe and effective working environment.
Infrastructure Antennae We provide high performance indoor and outdoor 
antennae solutions. In-building wireless antennae 
are particularly applicable in environments where 
aesthetics and wide angle coverage are necessary 
for successful wireless deployment. Their small size 
allows them to be hidden almost anywhere, providing 
an invisible solution for most applications.
Our solutions offer robust designs to address the 
challenges of large scale installations, such as multipath 
and interference, signal dead spots and shadows, ensuring 
comprehensive coverage inside or outside a building. 
Maintaining mission-critical signal integrity and adding 
Wi-Fi capacity are some of our product capabilities.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
5
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 both
design
manufacturing
Our global reach
We deliver solutions across the world
9,000
Approximately 
9,000 employees 
across 5 continents  
and 19 countries 
29
Engineering and  
manufacturing  
sites globally  
11
Customer design centres 
of excellence globally 
 
644
1
Registered patents 
 
 
Both
+
Design
Increased production 
footprint, WACS  
(wireless), Ohio
Oct
Summer 2015 
Opening of telematics 
plant, Sao Paulo
2015
Manufacturing
1
 Total patents as at 20 February 2015.
6
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 both
design
manufacturing
Increased production 
footprint, telematics  
plant, Shanghai
Oct
Acquisition of Model  
Solution, South Korea
Apr
New design centre, 
 South Korea
Apr
New plant opening, 
Vietnam
June
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
7
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our business model
Innovation, reliable fulfilment and speed 
underpin our business model 
and create shareholder value
Innovation
Reliable  
Fulfilment
Speed
Our commitment to 
innovation is reflected 
in our investment in R&D.
A consistent level of high 
quality engineering and 
manufacturing processes 
ensures we deliver quality 
product on time to 
our customers.
Fast response through the 
design cycle and speed 
of delivery matters to 
our customers.
Laird design, 
innovation  
and speed
Laird manufacturing,  
reliable fulfilment  
and speed
Customers
Customer 
mindshare
8
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic differentiation
Our business model is underpinned by our 
partnership with our customers who rely 
on our expertise in developing innovative 
solutions, combined with our commitment to 
reliable fulfilment and speed in responding to 
their needs. Our long-term partnerships, or 
‘customer mindshare’ help us to penetrate new 
product lines and platforms and thereby grow 
our business, creating long term value for our 
shareholders. We discuss our strategic vision in 
more detail in “Our strategy” on pages 16-17.
Innovation: first point of contact
Our design engineers engage with customers at every 
stage of the design process, creating value by providing 
creative solutions and engineering innovation. For some 
of our customers, speed of design, innovation and 
reliable fulfilment throughout the design and production 
cycle is of primary importance. For other customers, 
it is our ability to create mission-critical connectivity 
solutions in the most demanding environments, from 
stadiums to ports, mining and railways, that reinforces 
our customer mindshare. 
Reliable fulfilment: meeting customer 
demand throughout the product cycle
High standards of quality engineering, precision 
manufacturing expertise and manufacturing facilities 
close to our key customers ensure that we are able 
to deliver consistent quality throughout the peaks of 
production demand, smoothly and efficiently, regardless 
of customer demand. This is a capability that few of 
our competitors can match, and it underpins our well-
deserved reputation for reliable fulfilment. We have 
extensive manufacturing facilities around the globe, 
located close to our customers for just-in-time fulfilment. 
By having on-site testing and the highest industry 
accreditation, we provide assurance for customers 
across a wide range of demanding and harsh 
industrial applications.
Speed: fast response through the design 
and production cycle
One of our strategic differentiators is the speed with 
which we service customers, from design through to 
delivery. Customers highly value our ability to combine 
design innovation with fast and reliable fulfilment. 
We ensure that our production capabilities match our 
customers’ needs so that our customers never wait for 
our components.
We also have the ability to create rapid prototypes 
through our acquisition of Model Solution which helps 
our customers accelerate their product development. 
Building prototypes also helps strengthen our customer 
relationships, giving us valuable insight into future trends 
and designs.
Customer mindshare: long-term collaboration 
and reliable fulfilment 
The differentiation we offer through innovation, reliable 
fulfilment and speed means that our customers know 
that they can rely on us. The confidence that customers 
have in us as innovative design partners and consultants, 
combined with our position as an essential supply chain 
supplier sets us apart from the competition. It is this 
customer mindshare that underpins our business model.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
9
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our business model continued
Our business model focuses on becoming a trusted 
partner to our customers by providing a differentiated 
solution and unique customer value. This is manifested 
in our business model by: 
• creating innovative customer solutions that anticipate 
market changes and provide our customers with a 
step jump in competitive advantage (Innovation);
• ensuring high quality engineering and manufacturing 
processes that are able to meet rapid changes in 
customer demand to keep production lines running 
(Reliable fulfilment); 
• enabling accelerated new product launches by 
delivering unparallelled speed and access throughout 
the customer design process (Speed); and
• driving higher levels of customer engagement 
and fostering long-term strategic partnerships 
to define the future product and service needs 
(Customer mindshare).
Customer mindshare underpinned 
by The Five Pillars 
A key part of our strategy is to create an internal culture 
that fosters innovation, collaboration and a commitment 
to winning customer mindshare. Under our ‘One Laird’ 
banner, the Leadership team, comprised of our most 
senior managers, is tasked with implementing our 
business strategy across the Company. The Leadership 
team meets regularly to encourage collaboration 
across business units and corporate functions, to share 
knowledge and to win new business from both existing 
customers and new prospects. 
The Leadership team forms the core of the wider 
Management team, comprising the top 200 managers 
who meet annually. This group reaches deeper into 
the organisation to embed the culture, to cascade the 
strategy and provide guidance and leadership to the 
whole organisation. 
Our well-defined strategy to invest for growth and 
create value provides the framework to manage our 
businesses on a day-to-day basis on a global footprint. 
The strategy framework is the context for setting 
business objectives, investment decisions and M&A 
evaluations which feed into our operating model. 
Our corporate culture is based on being honest and 
ethical in all situations and treating each other, our 
customers and our suppliers with dignity and respect. 
We strongly believe that our corporate governance 
principles, which guide how we do business, contribute 
to customer mindshare and long-term growth.
Culture statement
“ We work as a global team of talented individuals 
to make a difference to our employees, business 
partners, and our world.
  We have an unwavering commitment to being honest 
and ethical in all situations and treating each other 
with dignity and respect.
  We create an open and engaging environment that 
thrives on high energy, adaptability and delivering 
on our commitments.
  Laird is a great place with great opportunities for 
personal and professional growth for those who work 
hard, are willing to learn and deliver results.”
Governance
Operating model
Culture
Leadership
Strategy
Whole organisation
Management team
CEO
Executive team
Leadership team
Our Five Pillar management philosophy based on the ‘One Laird’ 
concept ensures that a consistent and coherent strategic vision is 
cascaded down through to all employees, regardless of geographic 
location or line function. The Management and Leadership teams 
meet regularly throughout the year to exchange customer insights, 
best practice and innovative solutions.
10
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
