 I was delighted to have been appointed as Chairman of 
Laird early in 2014. I have now visited many Laird sites and 
have always been impressed with the strength and depth 
of our Management team and the loyalty and dedication 
of our employees. Laird is a technology company with 
great potential.
A growing and evolving technology company
In 2014, we began to see the results of Laird’s strategic 
investment and customer focus over the past two years 
under David Lockwood’s leadership. Delivering embedded 
technology that captures value for our customers through 
innovation and bespoke solutions is at the heart of our 
success. The investment in our operations and facilities 
meant we successfully met strong demand from a range 
of customers, strengthening our strategic differentiation 
through innovation, reliable fulfilment and speed. We  
have now reported six consecutive quarters of organic 
growth, averaging 8% for 2014 as a whole. This consistent 
performance was underpinned by new customer wins and 
closer partnerships with existing customers over the year.
Cultural transformation – One Laird
As always, our people are our most important asset. 
Their dedication to delivering the best for their customers 
is the cornerstone of our strategy of being a trusted partner 
for our clients.
Over the year, we continued our cultural transformation 
under the ‘One Laird’ banner, promoting improved 
collaboration across our businesses. This exchange of 
ideas and innovation delivered several new customer wins 
Chairman’s statement
A growing and evolving technology company
and laid the ground for ever greater collaboration going forward. 
We thank all our employees for their efforts over the year.
We believe that a strong and talented Leadership team is the 
foundation for global success in the fast-moving technology sector. 
Several times during the year, our senior managers meet to exchange 
ideas, best practice and customer insights, and once a year the 
broader management gather to develop their collective leadership 
skills. In 2015, I, together with the other non-executive directors, will 
be joining this meeting. As well as contributing the Board’s collective 
experience, we look to gain greater visibility and understanding from 
management of the implementation of the Company’s plans.
Board changes
My focus is on building a strong and collaborative board that provides 
the leadership and experience to help manage Laird’s next phase 
of growth. We have conducted a board effectiveness review to 
ensure that the Board collectively possesses the necessary breadth 
and depth of skills. I will look to reinforce our skills matrix with 
future appointments.
In this context, I am delighted to welcome Mike Parker to the 
Laird Board as Senior Independent Director. He brings significant 
experience as a director of large listed companies with major 
international operations which will be a very important asset to 
Laird as it grows. 
I would like to thank Paula Bell, Chairman of the Audit Committee for 
additionally undertaking the role of Senior Independent Director for 
the previous year and a half. 
I would also like to express the Company’s particular thanks to 
Jonathan Silver, who retires at the Annual General Meeting, after 
serving the company for 29 years, 21 as Chief Financial Officer. 
Jonathan has worked tirelessly for the Company through many 
changes and we wish him all the very best for the future. 
Dividends
We remain committed to delivering shareholder value through 
organic growth and a sustainable dividend policy. After substantial 
increases in the dividend over the last three financial years, the 
Board is adopting a progressive dividend policy, increasing returns to 
shareholders and taking into account both the underlying profitability 
of the business and its cash requirements, allowing dividend cover to 
be rebuilt over time.
This year, the Board has declared a 2014 final dividend of 8.23 pence 
(2013, 7.90 pence), resulting in a 4% increase in the total full year 
dividend to 12.5 pence per share (2013, 12.0 pence). The Board’s 
expectation is to increase dividends ahead of inflation over 
time, whilst taking into account underlying profitability, the cash 
requirements of the business and potential investment opportunities 
to drive future growth. The final dividend will be payable on 3 July 
2015 to shareholders on the register on 5 June 2015.
Outlook
Over the past two years we have built a strong foundation for 
delivering sustainable growth in our business. Our strategy of 
diversifying our customer base has created a more robust earnings 
stream, and the continuing investment in developing integrated 
modules and systems is leading to new customer opportunities and 
collaboration across our businesses. The customer mindshare we are 
developing across a number of our leading customers will help us 
remain at the technological forefront of our industry.
All these factors give us confidence in our strategy and our vision. 
We continue to focus on delivering shareholder value by executing 
against this strategy. After a successful year, 2015 has begun well, and 
we remain confident in the strength of our business.
Dr Martin Read, CBE 
Chairman
2 March 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
11
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
