 Chief Executive’s review
Delivering good growth in line with our strategy
2014 was a successful year for our 
business, with 8% organic revenue 
growth
4
 in US$ and total revenue 
growth in Sterling of 5%, reflecting 
currency headwinds but including 
the contribution from Model Solution. 
We have now achieved six consecutive 
quarters of growth, and this consistent 
performance was underpinned by new 
customer wins and closer partnerships 
with existing customers over the year. 
We are seeing the results of executing 
against our strategy, building a strong 
business with a clearly defined vision for 
capturing value for both our customers 
and investors. The investment in our 
people, facilities and R&D allowed us to 
meet strong demand from a range of 
customers, strengthening our strategic 
differentiation through innovation, 
reliable fulfilment and speed.
$932.0m
Total revenues
+11%
 (2013, $839.8m)
$117.4m
Operating profit
2
+12%
 (2013, $105.0m)
£63.2m
1
Underlying profit before tax
3
+5%
 (2013, £60.1m)
1
£564.9m
1
Total revenues
+5%
 (2013, £537.0m)
£71.2m
Operating profit
2
+6%
 (2013, £67.2m)
12
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our businesses performed well over the year, with 
Performance Materials growing 9% organically and 
benefiting from strong growth in smartphones and 
4G/LTE infrastructure. Wireless Systems grew 8% 
organically, with strong growth in automotive telematics. 
Operating margin was 12.6% (2013, 12.5%). As expected, 
operating profit was heavily weighted to the second 
half of the year, with the operating leverage from higher 
revenues and new investments coming on stream in the 
second half of the year.
Capital Investment supporting growth 
and geographical expansion
Over the year, we expanded our production footprint 
with new factories in China, Vietnam and the United 
States and opened a new design centre in South 
Korea. The Vietnam facility came on stream midway 
through 2014 and is already meeting customer demand. 
In Shanghai, we moved to an expanded facility to 
improve production efficiency, expand capacity 
and increase R&D capability to fulfil our order book 
commitments. In the United States, we moved our 
Wireless Automation and Control (WACS) operations to 
a new and larger facility in Warren Ohio.
Innovation supporting increasing customer mindshare 
and diversification
We continue to invest in innovation and the 
development of new solutions for our customers, 
with 9% of revenues reinvested in our research and 
development. This significant investment enables us to 
be at the forefront of technological development, keep 
ahead of our competitors and win customer mindshare. 
We increased R&D spending by 10% to $81.9m, after a 
similar increase in 2013. This has resulted in a number of 
new customer wins as well as additional new projects 
from our existing customers. 
The number of customers generating over $25m of 
revenues increased to six over the year, while customers 
generating over $1m increased to 79, achieving 
one of our strategic objectives and ensuring good 
diversification across our customer base. Equally, our 
commitment to reliable fulfilment and speed meant 
that we were able to meet strong demand from existing 
customers over the year.
We continue to develop our expertise in wireless 
connectivity, gaining new customers in automotive 
telematics and maintaining a leading market position in 
automotive antennae. The increasing electronic content 
per vehicle is contributing to our strong growth in this 
industry segment, as the concept of the connected car 
expands into mid-range models and the value of our 
content increases.
In rail, our software control and connectivity platform 
Tasverii™ Insight for Rail secured a new customer win in 
European rail connectivity software, increasing our total 
installations to over 5,000 worldwide. We anticipate 
extending this software platform to new industry sectors 
in the future, such as fleet asset management. 
Acquisitions
In April we acquired a 51% interest in Model Solution, a 
South Korean rapid prototyping and design company, 
for £20.5m. Model Solution has performed well since 
acquisition and meets our strategy of diversifying 
both our geographic reach and our customer base 
by supporting our expansion into the key South 
Korean market. 
We have a well-defined and disciplined approach to 
acquisitions, choosing to develop organically, where 
possible, through product extension into new markets 
and gaining mindshare with existing customers. 
We continue to explore opportunities to accelerate 
entry into fast-growing market segments that build on 
our existing skill set and contribute new technologies to 
expand our product offering.
Cultural change
Our investment in people, cultural change and 
improved skill sets under the “One Laird” banner has 
contributed to our success in winning new customers 
and has helped to increase collaboration across our 
businesses. We have made several senior appointments 
to improve operational execution and deliver increased 
differentiation across our product range. This investment 
in people and training has helped us improve customer 
appreciation of the value we contribute in innovation 
and design partnership. We thank all our employees for 
their enthusiasm and dedication to capturing value and 
customer mindshare.
Outlook
Over the past two years we have built a strong 
foundation for delivering sustainable growth in our 
business. Our strategy of diversifying our customer 
base has created a more robust earnings stream, and 
the continuing investment in developing integrated 
modules and systems is leading to new customer 
opportunities and collaboration across our businesses. 
The customer mindshare we are developing across a 
number of our leading customers will help us remain at 
the technological forefront in attractive growth markets.
All these factors give us confidence in our strategy 
and our vision. We continue to focus on delivering 
shareholder value by executing against this strategy. 
After a successful year in 2014, we have good 
momentum for further growth in 2015. 
David Lockwood, OBE  
Chief Executive
2 March 2015
1
 Translated at $1.65/£ which is the average exchange rate over the year 
(2013, $1.56/£).
2
 Operating profit is stated before exceptional items, amortisation of 
acquired intangible assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets, gain 
or loss on disposal of business and acquisition transaction costs.
3
 Underlying profit before tax and earnings per share are stated before 
exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, goodwill and 
US capitalised development costs, gain/loss on disposal of businesses, 
impact arising from fair valuing of financial instruments and acquisition 
transaction costs. 
4
 Organic revenue growth is defined as the increase or decrease in revenue, 
year-on-year, with the base revenue for the prior year including revenue 
from current year acquisitions as if Laird had owned the acquisitions for 
the same period in the prior year.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
13
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The need for connectivity and ever-increasing 
functionality is the driving force behind connecting 
the home, automobile, outside environment and 
other networks together. The increased exchange of 
information and connectivity is supported by continued 
build out in mobile infrastructure, such as 4G, LTE and 5G, 
advances in sensor technology, and enhanced computing 
power driving future growth in the electronics industry. 
We have been leaders in radio frequency (RF) 
engineering for many years. Higher precision and 
multifunctional precision metal and electronic 
components are essential to enable assembly of 
smaller devices while at the same time maintaining and 
improving functionality. Integrated circuits and packaging 
technology must adapt to handle increased power 
density and heat gain. New materials that can both 
provide heating and cooling properties are increasingly 
in demand, and our engineers are working with 
customers on ever more powerful prototypes. 
The exploding demand for ever more powerful devices 
and ubiquitous connectivity within the electronics 
environment creates a number of opportunities to 
underpin the long-term growth of our business. 
Telecoms
The emergence of high-speed wired networks, 3G, 
4G, and ‘always on’ broadband services has placed 
tremendous demands on telecommunications 
technologies and services, and on the needs of 
telecommunication product manufacturers. As base 
stations and switching gear are deployed in more remote 
regions, equipment needs to maintain the highest 
operating levels, performing consistently, often for over 
10 years, coping with fluctuating power surges in hostile 
operating environments. 
We are a global leader in helping major telecoms 
companies build out their 4G networks with a range 
of innovative EMI, advanced thermal management 
solutions and wireless communication/antenna solutions. 
Our thermal interface materials (TIMs) have become the 
industry standard for effective heat removal on base 
stations and providing thermoelectric assemblies to cool 
electronics in hot environments. Our proprietary Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) design tools help optimise antennas to a 
level of performance that other providers cannot achieve. 
Our markets
The opportunity to protect electronics and 
enable connectivity exists in a wide range of markets
Ubiquitous connectivity is creating 
an insatiable demand for information 
continuously from anywhere in the 
world. More things are connecting to 
the internet than people — Gartner 
forecasts that 4.9 billion connected 
things will be in use in 2015, up 30% 
from 2014, and will reach 25 billion 
by 2020.
Revenue by market segment
1
2 3
4
5
6
7 1. IT/Telecom 27%
2. Transportation 26%
3. Smartphones 18%
4. Industrial 11%
5. Other industrial 9%
6. Consumer 6%
7. Medical 3%
Revenue by destination
1
2
3
4
1. Asia 49%
2. North America 35%
3. Europe 14%
4. UK 2%
Revenue by product segment
1
2
3
4
5
6
1. EMI Shielding 46%
2 .  T e le m a t i c s / Wi r e less 
Modules
21%
3. Thermal 14%
4 .  Wi r e less A u t o m a t i o n 
and Control
8%
5. Infrastructure Antenna 6%
6 .  S i gn al i n t e gr i t y 5%
14
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Transportation
We are at the forefront of transport systems through 
our wireless connectivity solutions for driverless car 
technology, rail management and asset tracking 
solutions. With nearly 5,000 rail-related applications 
installed worldwide, we offer the most comprehensive 
combination of experience, product quality and 
technical support.
Smartphones and consumer electronics
Consumer electronics manufacturers know that future 
success depends on being able to constantly innovate, 
to design products that are thinner, lighter, more 
powerful and reliable than ever before. Reducing time 
to market is an important competitive advantage for 
our customers. Expectations of seamless and constant 
connectivity, increased computing processing power 
and form-friendly devices are becoming the norm. 
We provide heat management and EMI shielding 
solutions to a wide range of applications that optimise 
the performance of consumer applications. We also 
supply wireless connectivity to allow a virtual reality 
experience while optimising energy requirements.
Automotive/M2M
The automotive environment is a challenging one for 
RF technology. Yet the need for connectivity in the 
driving support and infotainment systems continue 
to proliferate. Modern luxury cars often have multiple 
antennae, each one customised to fit the form and 
function of the specific automotive model. As cars 
become ‘smarter’ and more connected, the demand 
for seamless, high quality connectivity is increasingly 
expected by consumers.
Our electronic design and engineering credentials 
within the global automotive industry are second 
to none. That is why market-leading automotive 
manufacturers trust us to deliver reliable, innovative 
solutions to some of the most complex EMI, thermal 
and wireless communications challenges. 
Our wireless communications capabilities are 
similarly world class, recognising the multiple design 
and specification requirements that automotive 
manufacturers and vehicle models demand. We have 
become a global leader in the design, manufacture 
and delivery of automotive antennas, with state-of-
the-art designs including satellite radio, GPS, cellular, 
AM/FM, on-glass, amplifiers, Bluetooth, DAB and 
many more. We also provide fully hosted networked 
application software that enables customers to 
monitor their remote controlled assets in real-time.
IT/Computing
The evolution of computing and IT equipment 
in recent years has led to dramatic increases in 
processing power, data rates, connectivity, display 
size and quality – all of which increase the likelihood of 
EMI and thermal management challenges, as well as 
creating the need for robust RF solutions to manage 
signal conflict. We have a leading position in thermal 
solutions for computing, especially notebook PCs and 
servers, which is recognised throughout the industry. 
Industrial
One of the most dynamic parts of the electronics 
industry, the industrial sector, comprises a wide range 
of solutions for an equally wide range of applications, 
from simple switches and motor controllers on 
individual machinery to the most complex wireless 
solutions in challenging environments such as factory, 
rail, mining, ports and materials handling. The ability 
to provide industrial grade connectivity in the most 
challenging and hostile industrial environments makes 
us a market leader in industrial wireless solutions.
Healthcare/Medical
There are few more demanding or essential markets 
for reliable wireless connectivity, EMI and thermal 
management than the healthcare sector, and 
specifically how they are applied to sophisticated 
and often mission-critical electronic medical devices. 
A hospital is a complex organisation that deals with 
a great deal of data, including critical and sensitive 
patient data, in a very challenging RF environment. 
Over the last several years, there has been a dynamic 
shift in the types of medical devices found within a 
hospital. What were once nomadic computing devices, 
such as a heavy laptop or computer station, have now 
transformed into small, lightweight mobile devices. 
Today’s portable medical devices often are used while 
the user moves from one place to the next and require 
a persistent network connection. Therefore, medical 
devices create an even greater challenge for hospitals 
when it comes to running persistent applications.
From EMI suppression to advanced temperature 
control using thermoelectric modules, we are 
committed to providing superior products upon 
which medical suppliers can depend, including the 
very latest wireless communications technologies.
Military
Defence applications demand superior performance 
under the most demanding conditions. We have built a 
reputation for quality, reliability and performance that 
is second to none. We are the preferred supplier for 
EMI shielding and custom absorbers for a wide range 
of defence applications.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
15
Laird PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
