 07
Lamprell plc
Annual Report  
& Accounts 2007 
The Company’s order book is strong, and the demand 
for its services, particularly in the rig building and rig 
refurbishment businesses, are at an all time high.
Chairman’s statement
This is my first letter to you as Chairman of 
Lamprell plc, a position I have held since 
February 2008. It is a great honour and I look 
forward to working with you, our shareholders, 
as well as our customers and staff. 
Lamprell was founded by Steven Lamprell, 
your President, in Dubai more than thirty 
years ago, and today is a leading oil and 
engineering services, rig building and rig 
refurbishment company in the UAE, and one 
of the largest of its kind in the world. After I 
joined the Board in July 2006 we listed our 
shares on the London AIM market at a price 
of £1.95 per share (market capitalisation of 
£390 million) and the Company is growing 
rapidly.
Peter Whitbread was Chairman and CEO 
until it was decided to separate those roles  
in February this year. I am exceptionally 
pleased that he will continue as CEO.  
Under his direction the Company has grown 
significantly, and at the date of writing, has  
a market capitalisation of more than  
US$ 1.5 billion.  
The Company’s order book is strong, and 
the demand for its services, particularly in 
the rig building and rig refurbishment 
businesses, are at an all time high. Costs are 
increasing due to inflationary pressure, but 
margins remain healthy. The new Hamriyah 
facility will come on stream at the beginning 
of 2009 and this will give the Company 
additional capacity as it seeks to grow  
the business and capitalise on new  
business prospects.
The Board is now of the view that due to 
Lamprell’s successful growth since flotation, 
the Company will move its listing to the Main 
Market of the London Stock Exchange. This 
in turn will bring greater exposure, increase 
the Company’s profile, and attract a broader 
range of shareholders. The move is likely to 
happen in the fourth quarter of this year.
We see a long period ahead with high oil 
prices driving business in the worldwide oil 
services sector. Lamprell’s location in the 
Middle East, at the heart of the world oil and 
gas market, coupled with its long-standing 
reputation for quality and performance, 
provides an excellent  platform for long-term 
confidence in the ability of the Company to 
continue to develop and  expand in the 
prevailing positive market climate.
I believe that Lamprell is well positioned to 
weather the current turbulence in the world’s 
financial markets as we offer a compelling 
proposition unlike any of our competitors. 
We are debt free and maintain strong cash 
reserves and this, combined with Lamprell’s 
strong management team with many  
years of success under Peter Whitbread’s 
leadership, indicate the outlook for the 
Company continues to be extremely 
encouraging.
Peter G Birch
Chairman
Steven D. Lamprell
President
