 08
Lamprell plc
Annual Report  
& Accounts 2007 
Our ongoing commitment to quality, schedule, safety 
and customer service, has ensured that the Company 
has continued to benefit from the strong support that 
we receive from our clients and encouraging levels of 
repeat business. 
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
In this, the second Annual Report to 
Shareholders, I am pleased to be able to 
announce that we have had another 
outstanding year in 2007, having seen 
significant growth in revenues of 42% 
compared to 2006, and a net profit (adjusted 
for exceptional charges) for the year of  
US$ 86.2 million (and US$ 71.5 million after 
exceptional charges) which once again 
exceeded our initial projections for the year.
We are currently in a period of high oil prices 
and unprecedented demands on all aspects 
of the services provided by Lamprell. We 
continue to focus on our core business 
activities of drilling rig refurbishment, new 
build rigs and the fabrication of FPSO  
topside process modules. This focus, 
coupled with our ongoing commitment to 
quality, schedule, safety and customer 
service, has ensured that the Company  
has continued to benefit from the strong 
support that we receive from our clients and 
encouraging levels of repeat business. 
We see the current high level of oil and gas 
related activity, both onshore and offshore, 
coupled with a sustained high oil price, 
continuing for many years to come. In this 
underlying economic climate we see real 
opportunity for continued progressive growth 
and expansion of our Company interests 
both in the region and internationally. We 
also see continued commitment from our 
long-term clients supporting our declared 
intentions to expand and develop the 
Company over the coming years.
During 2007, we have seen a significant 
increase in new clients, some of whom have 
already become repeat clients. We have 
additionally commenced a range of major 
new build projects, with the two Scorpion 
LeTourneau Super 116 jackup drilling rigs 
and the two Seajacks liftboats being the 
primary projects that were started during  
the year. At the turn of the year we also 
successfully completed the largest single 
jackup rig rehabilitation and upgrade project 
ever undertaken by the Company, the Nabors 
Drilling 660 project, worth approximately 
US$ 77 million in revenue.
We have also started the construction of  
our new facility at Hamriyah which is on 
schedule to come on stream at the beginning 
of 2009.
At the beginning of 2008 we entered the year 
with an unprecedented forward visibility of 
contracted work in excess of US$ 580 million 
and a cash and bank balance of US$ 159 
million. We continue to run our business 
without debt and our organic expansion and 
development is supported from our own free 
cash flow. We have a strong balance sheet 
and we maintain a business model without 
claims or cases of litigation either against us 
or against our clients, subcontractors or 
suppliers. Against this background we enter 
the new financial year in an excellent position 
to capitalise on the opportunities that exist in 
this buoyant business climate.
All the initiatives we undertook in 2007 were 
consistent with our declared strategy laid out  09
Lamprell plc
Annual Report  
& Accounts 2007 
at the time of our IPO in October 2006. Our 
successful full year results are testament that 
we are pursuing the right strategy and we 
remain confident in our ability to maintain our 
growth and to continue to deliver shareholder 
value and customer satisfaction.
The Board
During 2007, and into 2008, there have been 
a number of actual and proposed changes to 
the Board of Directors of Lamprell plc. In 
early February 2008, I stepped down as 
Chairman of the Board handing over to Peter 
Birch, who previously held the position of 
Deputy Chairman. Peter brings a wealth of 
long-term corporate experience to the 
position of Chairman of the Board and is a 
well known and much respected figure within 
the City. 
This change is in preparation for our intended 
move to have a primary listing on the Main 
Market of the London Stock Exchange plc, 
subject to regulatory approvals, in the fourth 
quarter of 2008 and accords with the 
recommendations of the Combined Code. It 
also ensures that the continuing role as Chief 
Executive Officer can be carried out with a 
singular focus on the ongoing expansion and 
development of the Company.
As previously announced, David Moran will 
step down as Chief Operating Officer in  
May 2008, but will continue on the Board  
in the capacity of Director of Corporate 
Communications. This is an undertaking that 
demonstrates to the investment community 
the high level of importance that we place  
on the interface with our clients, investors, 
and market analysts, and carries with  
it a particular remit to broaden our investor 
base.
Nigel McCue, currently a Non-Executive 
Director, will take over the role of Chief 
Operating Officer in May 2008, bringing 
with him a wealth of experience in the  
oil and gas industry. I am confident that 
Nigel will continue to build upon the 
significant contribution he has already 
made to the management team in his  
Non-Executive role.
In August 2007 Jonathan Silver joined the 
Board of Lamprell plc as a Non-Executive 
Director. Jonathan has for many years been 
a principal legal advisor to the Company and 
has lived and worked in the United Arab 
Emirates for over thirty years and brings to 
the Board a huge amount of industrial, legal 
and local knowledge.
I would also like to particularly thank Steven 
Lamprell (President of the Company) for his 
ongoing support and enthusiasm in assisting 
in the growth and development of the 
Company; also to Peter Birch who, in his 
capacity as Chairman of the Board, is 
providing invaluable support to myself and 
the Board as we prepare to move to the Main 
Market of the London Stock Exchange.  
Market overview
Throughout 2007 we have seen a sustained 
high level of business activity in all sectors of 
the oil and gas services industry. In the 
Middle East we continue to see high levels of 
drilling activity, both onshore and offshore. 
We believe this market strength will continue 
for some years to come and expect to see a 
significant increase in the regional rig count 
over the next few years. There are no 
indications that any of the operators in the 
region are considering relocating any of their 
rig fleet away from the region. 
The majority of this rig count increase will 
most likely come from our existing client 
base, and we therefore anticipate that we will 
see many of these rigs come through the 
Lamprell facilities.
There continues to be a high demand world 
wide for deep water FPSO field developments 
and Lamprell is well placed to take advantage 
of these projects with its already well proven 
track record of quality and timely delivery of 
FPSO topside process modules.
The continued high oil price together with 
worldwide demand placing pressure on 
limited oil and gas service resources provides 
us with a high level of confidence that the 
current market conditions will prevail for 
some considerable period of time. We have 
already seen our long-term visibility for 
contracted work significantly increase 
through 2007 and we believe that this  
visibility will continue to improve through 
2008 and beyond.
Future developments
The construction phase of the new Hamriyah 
deep water facility in the Hamriyah Free  10
Lamprell plc
Annual Report  
& Accounts 2007 
In November 2007 , Lamprell was presented with the 
award of “Best Newcomer to the AIM Market” of the 
London Stock Exchange at the annual AIM Awards.
Zone, in the United Arab Emirates, is currently 
well underway and on schedule, having 
commenced construction works in the early 
part of 2008. The facility will be ready to 
commence fabrication activities in early 
2009, and progress is in line with 
expectations.
When completed, the new facility will have  
a developed area of 250,000m
2
 with a 
deepwater berthing quay wall 1,250m in 
length and 9m deep. This will enable us to 
work on up to 10 rigs simultaneously and 
construct up to three new build jackups. The 
new facility will also enable us to move into 
the refurbishment of drill ships and semi-
submersible drilling units which, up to this 
time, we have been unable to service in any 
significant capacity because of space and 
water depth constraints. 
Our existing client base is looking very 
positively at the potential that this new facility 
will offer to them to provide further services 
to meet their ever increasing regional needs.  
We are additionally developing and expanding 
our facilities at the Jebel Ali facility with further 
workshops, client offices, corporate offices 
and warehousing to support the planned 
increase in liftboat, tender barge and FPSO 
process module building which we foresee 
arising this year and beyond.
Awards
In November 2007, Lamprell was presented 
with the award of “Best Newcomer to the 
AIM Market” of the London Stock Exchange 
at the annual AIM Awards evening in London, 
which we accepted with a great deal of pride. 
In December 2007 Lamprell received further 
industry recognition through the award of the 
Lloyd’s List Middle East and India Oil and 
Gas Energy Award for an unprecedented 
third consecutive year and the Company was 
also the recipient of the Seatrade Middle 
East and India Energy Oil and Gas Award 
earlier in the year. Both of these industry 
awards set out to recognise the Company or 
organisation which has demonstrated the 
highest levels of business initiative, creativity, 
commitment to investment and growth, and 
above all, a company which has clearly 
demonstrated a strong and committed safety 
culture.
In 2007 Lamprell was also accredited with 
the management system certificate ISO 
14001: 2004 and the Occupational, Health 
and Safety Assessment Series, OHSAS 
18001: 1999.
Dividend
As previously stated, it has been our intention 
to reward shareholders with a dividend 
subject to the performance of the business 
and the cash flow requirements of our 
expansion plans. Given the strength of 2007 
for the Company and our continued growth, 
the Board of Directors is recommending a 
final dividend payment of 12.25 cents per 
ordinary share, with a Sterling equivalent of 
6.17 pence per ordinary share. This will be 
payable, when approved, on 18 June 2008 
to eligible shareholders on the register at 
16 May 2008.
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
continued 11
Lamprell plc
Annual Report  
& Accounts 2007 
This has once again been an outstanding year for 
Lamprell. We have seen significant revenue and 
earnings growth, exceeding all targets set at the 
beginning of the year, alongside growth across all  
our operating businesses.
Outlook
This has once again been an outstanding 
year for Lamprell.  We have seen significant 
revenue and earnings growth, exceeding all 
targets set at the beginning of the year, 
alongside growth across all our operating 
businesses. This is coupled with an ever 
improving forward visibility of revenue on 
contracted work.
We continue to maintain a strong balance 
sheet with no debt. This is combined with 
strong cash generation that will support our 
investment plans for the new facilities which 
in turn will enable us to realise our expansion 
plans for the business.
Going forward we see these dynamics for 
growth, development and success helping 
to underpin the business model that we have 
and the strong client retention that we have 
maintained.
It is the commitment of a loyal and dedicated 
workforce and management team that has 
created and maintained this success and it 
will be these same qualities that will continue 
to be the essential elements that that will 
enable us to continue the development, 
growth and success of the business.
On behalf of the Board of Directors and from 
myself personally, I would like to thank 
everyone in the Lamprell team for the 
tremendous efforts that have been made 
throughout the past year. I am confident that 
we can continue to deliver the highest 
standards of service to our customers, win 
new work and reward our shareholders for 
their support. After a successful 2007, I firmly 
believe that we can look forward with 
confidence to an equally successful 2008 
and beyond.
Peter Whitbread 
Chief Executive Officer
