 Chairman’s 
Statement
I am honoured to be writing this Statement, 
following my appointment, on 27 March 2009, 
as Chairman of Lamprell plc. 
Jonathan Silver, Chairman
Steven D. Lamprell, President
2008 was a very busy year for the 
Company. The strategic aim, set out at 
the time of the IPO in 2006, to move the 
Company’s listing to the Main Market of 
the London Stock Exchange, was 
achieved; work on the planned expansion 
at the new Hamriyah site progressed 
significantly; the new facility at Sattahip in 
Thailand officially opened; Lamprell 
undertook some of the largest and most 
complex projects in its history; and it won 
several sizeable contracts for both 
existing and new customers. Despite the 
extraordinary turbulence in the world’s 
financial and other markets, Lamprell 
generated, in 2008, revenue of USD 
740.8 million (up 58.5% on the previous 
year), an adjusted net profit of USD 95.5 
million (an increase of nearly 11% on the 
prior year) and fully diluted and adjusted 
earnings per share of 47.58 cents (up 
10.6% on the prior year). 
With the move to the Main Market, we took 
the opportunity to strengthen the Board. 
We have been fortunate to have been 
joined by Colin Goodall, now the Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director, who 
brings with him enormous experience 
gained with BP in the upstream oil and gas 
industry and Brian Frederick, a career 
banker with HSBC. However, David Moran 
stepped down from the Board on 
2 November and Peter Birch, who had 
joined the Board at the time of the IPO, left 
the Board, for personal reasons, in early 
December having very ably chaired the 
Board since 5 February 2008. 
As planned at the time of the IPO, Peter 
Whitbread will step down as CEO on 
1 May 2009 and Nigel McCue will step 
up from his current role as Chief 
Operating Officer to take Peter’s place. 
Peter and Nigel have worked together 
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
04 Business overview
extremely closely since Nigel accepted a 
full-time role with Lamprell and I expect 
the transition to be “seamless”. Nigel 
brings huge experience both of the oil 
industry in general and Lamprell, in 
particular, having served as a Director 
since 7 July 2006 and I am confident he 
will make a very significant contribution to 
the Company in the coming years. 
Peter’s contribution to Lamprell over the 
last 17 years has been absolutely 
enormous and I am particularly delighted 
that he has agreed to remain on the 
Board and to take on the strategic role of 
Director of International Development for 
the Group. 
As announced on 20 March 2009, 
Lamprell has experienced, in recent 
weeks, a slow down in its business, except 
for the rig refurbishment business which is 
currently busy but is now expected also to 
slow down in the second half of the year. 
However, although the global turmoil in 
financial and other markets, the depressed 
oil price and the uncertainty that prevails 
generally in the world economy are having 
an adverse effect on most business 
sectors, the Executive Directors have been 
quick to recognise the challenging market 
conditions that have emerged within the 
industry in which Lamprell operates and 
they are working very hard to put in place 
appropriate measures to limit the impact of 
those conditions on the business. I fully 
expect these measures, Lamprell’s 
long-standing reputation for quality, 
technical capability, project execution and 
delivery and the dedication, commitment 
and experience of Lamprell’s management 
and staff, to stand us in good stead for the 
difficult year that lies ahead.
With the new appointments and the skills 
that my other colleagues bring to the 
Board, Lamprell has a solid platform on 
which to build and I am looking forward 
to working with them in leading the 
Company through the current, difficult 
phase it is facing. 
Jonathan Silver 
Chairman
Lamprell plc
A year of significant opportunities to 
further expand the scope and reach 
of the Company.
Rig refurbishment outperforming  
the market 
With its diverse offering for a broad 
customer base, the Company’s operating 
markets and facilities remain busy. Rig 
refurbishment in particular, will continue 
to be a core activity in the coming years 
as customers maintain and upgrade their 
existing rig fleets. 
Global Reach
Lamprell’s expansion into Thailand  
in 2008 is an exciting development. 
South-East Asia has a significant fleet  
of jackup drilling rigs owned principally  
by Lamprell’s current clients in the  
UAE and offers exciting possibilities  
for future growth. 
Move to the Main Market 
Further to Lamprell’s continued 
development and growth since its 
successful AIM listing, the Company 
moved its listing to the Main Market of the 
London Stock Exchange in November 
2008. Lamprell believes this to be a more 
appropriate platform than AIM for its 
continued growth and looks to the future 
with confidence. 
Building on Lamprell’s reputation
Since its inception, Lamprell has strived 
to offer its clients a best in class service. 
Projects are completed on time, within 
budget, and to the very highest of 
standards which has garnered Lamprell 
an unparalleled reputation in rig 
refurbishment. Looking ahead, we  
hope to leverage our exacting standards 
as we move into new markets and 
diversify our offering.
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
05
