 Peter Whitbread, Chief Executive Officer
Chief 
Executive 
Officer’s 
Statement
I am pleased to announce that we have  
had another successful year in 2008,  
having seen significant growth in revenues  
of 58.5% compared to 2007, and a net profit 
(adjusted for exceptional charges) for the year 
of USD 95.5 million (USD 85.5 million after 
exceptional charges).
Towards the end of 2008 we entered a 
time of market uncertainty as a result of 
the worldwide financial crisis. Lamprell, 
like every other company, is looking at a 
different economic landscape from that 
which existed this time last year. In mid 
2008, the Group was operating against a 
backdrop of record oil prices, with the oil 
services sector working at near 
maximum capacity. This is in stark 
contrast to the operating markets we are 
now experiencing and as a result, we 
have reviewed our business to ensure we 
are able to steer the Group effectively 
through these turbulent times. 
One of the cornerstones of Lamprell’s 
development and success has been its 
rigorous approach to project execution. 
We are committed to offering our 
customers the highest standards 
available and our clients enjoy exacting 
levels of service. We are in the privileged 
position of enjoying a great many repeat 
contracts from our customers who see 
the value which Lamprell brings. In 
addition to this, we have been fortunate 
to have a strong balance sheet and net 
cash position. 
Throughout our history, we have 
approached expansion and development 
in a measured way, only embarking on 
such projects when we could afford to 
pay for such developments from our own 
cash resources. At a time when bank 
debt is not readily available, we are 
pleased to continue operating with no 
long-term debt.
In the past year we have undertaken 
some of the largest and most complex 
projects in the Company’s history. We 
have a strong order book going forward, 
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
06 Business overview
which at the end of the year stood at 
approximately, USD 600 million extending 
into late 2010 and to date there have 
been no cancellations received impacting 
our order book.
On our major EPC contracts we 
completed the commissioning and 
delivery of the Seajacks Kraken new build 
self propelled liftboat to Seajacks 
International Limited in March 2009, on 
time and on budget. The construction 
phase of the second liftboat, the Seajacks 
Leviathan, has significantly advanced 
during 2008 and the unit will be launched 
on schedule later in the year awaiting final 
completion and commissioning.
The construction phases of the new build 
jackup rig projects for Scorpion Offshore 
Limited have significantly advanced 
during 2008 and the first rig, the Offshore 
Freedom, is on target for delivery in April 
2009, with the Offshore Mischief planned 
to be launched later in the year awaiting 
final completion and commissioning. We 
are delighted that Scorpion have now 
arranged the full funding requirements for 
the Offshore Freedom and also that they 
have arranged financing to meet a 
substantial progress payment on the 
Offshore Mischief and have stated to the 
market that they are confident of meeting 
all future contract payments. 
The new build jackup rig project with 
Riginvest GP for the construction and 
delivery of a completely outfitted and 
equipped, LeTourneau designed, 
self-elevating Mobile Offshore Drilling 
Platform of a Super 116E (Enhanced) 
Class design is continuing and is now 
planned for completion in November 
2010. In addition, the construction phase 
of the lump sum turnkey construction 
contract with BassDrill for a self-erecting 
tender assist drilling unit is progressing 
on target for completion later this year. 
The Al Ghallan jackup drilling rig 
refurbishment project for NDC was 
carried out during the year and has been 
completed successfully on time and on 
budget in February 2009. This project, 
with a contract value to Lamprell of USD 
59 million, is part of the NDC Strategic 
RIAP. The project is the second contract 
awarded under the RIAP programme and 
follows the successful completion of the 
NDC Junana upgrade project in 2007.
The Board
On 6 November 2008 we moved our 
listing from the AIM to the Official List of 
the UK Listing Authority and the shares of 
Lamprell plc were admitted for trading on 
the London Stock Exchange plc’s main 
market for listed securities. 
Subsequent to our move to the Official 
List, Peter G Birch, the then Chairman  
of the Company, resigned from the  
Board of Lamprell plc due to personal 
reasons. David Moran who held the 
position of Director of Corporate 
Communications stepped down from  
the Board on 2 November 2008 and  
has subsequently left the Company.  
We acknowledge the contribution made 
by both Peter and David during their 
tenure with the Company. 
Colin Goodall joined the Board of 
Lamprell as a Non-Executive Director on 
14 September 2008. Colin was appointed 
to the role of Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director on 2 November. 
In addition, on 15 September 2008, the 
Board announced the appointment of 
Brian Fredrick who joined the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director with effect from 
1 January 2009. Brian has held a variety 
of senior banking roles, most recently 
with HSBC. 
Jonathan Silver joined the Board on 
24 August 2007, pursuant to 
arrangements made with Lamprell 
Holdings Limited, the Company’s 
principal shareholder, at the time the 
Company’s shares were admitted to 
trading on the AIM. In accordance with 
those arrangements, Jonathan ceased to 
be a Director immediately upon 
Admission to the Official List becoming 
effective. However, the Board considered 
that Jonathan’s detailed knowledge of the 
Group and the Middle East region made 
it desirable for his services to be retained 
and accordingly, the Board resolved to 
reappoint Jonathan immediately as a 
Non-Executive Director.
We are pleased to announce that on 
27 March 2009 the Board appointed 
Jonathan Silver as Non-Executive 
Chairman. Jonathan’s detailed 
knowledge of the Group and the Middle 
East region means he is the ideal 
candidate for the role and the Board is 
delighted he has agreed to become the 
Chairman of Lamprell plc. He has already 
made an invaluable contribution to the 
Group’s development in recent years and 
we look forward to working with him as 
we seek to build our business, both in the 
Middle East and overseas.
On 1 May 2009 I will be stepping down 
from the position of CEO which I have held 
for the past 17 years. My intention to step 
down was initially advised to the Market at 
the time of the initial offering in October 
2006 and I am delighted that Nigel McCue 
is stepping into the CEO position. I am 
confident that Nigel has the right level of 
experience and knowledge to successfully 
take the Company forward.
I will be taking on a role more outwardly 
focused on long-term strategic 
development of the Company. This 
position, entitled Director of International 
Development, will focus on the 
development and maintenance of client 
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
07 relationships and on the longer term 
strategic positioning of the Company as 
we seek to further expand the Company’s 
international interests and markets. This 
role will also entail working closely with 
Nigel in providing managerial assistance 
and support to him in his new role as CEO.
I would also like to particularly thank the 
founder and President of the Company, 
Steven Lamprell, for his friendship and 
support during the 17 years of working 
together. Without that long-term 
relationship and trust, the Company 
would not have developed to the 
structure that we have today. This 
ongoing support and enthusiasm, 
particularly during the current difficult and 
uncertain market conditions, is truly 
appreciated both from a business as well 
as a personal standpoint. 
Future developments
Despite the uncertain economic 
environment, our operational 
developments are continuing as planned. 
We believe our expansion is essential so 
that Lamprell is well placed to harness 
future business streams once the financial 
markets have improved and we see an 
upturn once more in activity levels.
Construction of the new facility at 
Hamriyah continues and operations are 
scheduled to commence in the second 
quarter of 2009. When completed the 
new facility will have a developed area of 
250,000m² with a deepwater berthing 
quay wall 1,250m in length and 9m deep. 
Lamprell will have a much more flexible 
capacity with the ability to work on up to 
10 rigs simultaneously and construct up 
to three new build jackups. Lamprell will 
also be able to refurbish drill ships and 
semi-submersible drilling units which, up 
to this time, the Company has been 
unable to service in any significant 
capacity because of space and water 
depth constraints.
We are additionally developing and 
expanding our facilities at Jebel Ali and 
we have recently completed the 
construction of an extension to our 
existing production facility. 
The Company’s new 46,950m² facility  
with 158m deep water quayside  
in Sattahip, Thailand, is now complete  
and our first revenue generating project 
commenced in the first quarter of 2009.  
In addition, the Board of Investment 
privileges for the new Thailand operations 
were granted on 4 December 2008 
providing amongst other benefits, certain 
corporate tax and import duty exemptions.
Market overview 
As a result of the diverse range of activities 
that Lamprell undertakes and its broad 
range of customers, all of the Company’s 
facilities have remained active during 2008. 
This has been a significant contributor in 
delivering a strong financial performance 
for the year and reporting net profit for 
2008 in line with market expectations, 
despite current market conditions. 
During this current period, Lamprell 
continues to remain operationally active but 
also extremely vigilant. The Board continues 
to be cautious with respect to the market 
for new build orders for drilling jackup rigs 
as it expects that these may slow, as clients 
reduce their capital expenditure plans and 
focus on existing assets.
The Company continues to see a 
significant interest in the use of jackup 
liftboats for alternative energy usage, 
particularly related to the development of 
offshore wind farms and our proposals 
activity generally remains active.
Chief 
Executive 
Officer’s 
Statement
(continued)
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
08 Business overview
Rig refurbishment performed strongly in 
2008 with higher levels of activity than 
expected in the second half of the year. 
This business area has remained buoyant 
as we enter 2009, however, there have 
been recent signs of a slow down which 
is likely to impact during the second half 
of 2009.
The Board remains optimistic of the 
medium term prospects for this business 
area. Over 75% of the existing global rig 
fleet is over 25 years old and over 25% of 
that fleet is located within Lamprell’s 
regional catchment area. To that end, the 
Company anticipates that demand for its 
services will continue, despite the fact 
that multiple new build rigs will be 
delivered in the next three years and the 
current oil price is depressed. The 
continued maintenance and 
refurbishment of this aging fleet is still 
seen as a regional priority for operators 
and will continue to represent a major 
ongoing component in the overall mix of 
projects which Lamprell will be 
undertaking in the coming years. 
FPSO related activities were significant  
in the first half of 2008, however, there 
was a slow down in the second half of the 
year due to a general reduction of capex 
budgets and the weakening oil price. 
Notwithstanding this fact, the Board 
remains confident in the long term viability 
of the offshore construction market both 
for fixed and floating structures.
Activities relating to land rigs have 
continued at a consistent level and 
progress on the four new build API 2000 
HP fast moving land rigs continues on 
schedule. The demand for land rigs also 
continued to grow through to the end of 
2008 both in the UAE and internationally 
and the rig count in the Middle East has 
seen a substantial increase in the past 
three years. There have been a number 
of land rigs which have been temporarily 
laid up in the first quarter of 2009, 
reflecting a sharp reaction to the sudden 
drop in the oil price and the impact of the 
world wide financial uncertainty. 
However, because of the regional 
dynamics of the Middle Eastern market, 
we anticipate a strong recovery in land 
drilling activities in the Middle East in the 
second half of 2009. This provides the 
Board with confidence that both the 
refurbishment and new build land rig 
markets will regionally recover and will  
be attractive for some years to come.
The Board believes it is well placed  
to capitalise on the rig refurbishment 
opportunities that are being presented to 
the Company with the increasing offshore 
rig count in the Middle East region and 
although they are cautious in the short-
term market for new build construction, 
the Board is confident of the Company’s 
long-term prospects for the markets in 
which we operate. 
Dividend
Given the current difficult market conditions 
and the general uncertainty of the markets, 
the Board of Directors is recommending a 
final dividend payment of 3.15 cents per 
ordinary share, with a Sterling equivalent of 
2.18 pence per ordinary share. This will be 
payable, when approved, on 18 June 2009 
to eligible shareholders on the register at 
22 May 2009.
Outlook 
2008 was another successful year  
for Lamprell. In the period, we saw 
significant revenue and earnings growth, 
exceeding all targets set at the beginning 
of the year, and we continue to operate 
with a substantial order book extending 
into mid 2010. We have a strong balance 
sheet and operate with no long-term 
debt, and are proud to maintain a 
business model without claims or cases 
of litigation either against us or against 
our clients, subcontractors or suppliers.
However, it has become apparent in 
recent weeks that there is a marked slow 
down in the Company’s business except 
for the rig refurbishment business which 
is currently busy but is anticipated to slow 
down in the second half of the year. On 
20 March we announced that  
as a result of that change we expected 
the out turn for 2009 to be below the 
market’s expectations at that time.
We fully recognise the challenging 
prevailing market conditions that  
the wider service sector is currently 
encountering. In order that we operate  
as prudently as is possible, we are 
reviewing the impact this might have on 
our business in the short-term and action 
has already been taken to achieve cost 
savings, which is possible as a result  
of our flexible business model. Whilst  
the market today presents significant 
challenges to the Group, we are 
confident that our long-term prospects 
remain promising as we seek to build  
a strong platform for future growth. 
I would like to take the opportunity  
to again express the thanks and 
appreciation of the Board of Directors 
and my own personal thanks to all of our 
workforce for their support and unfailing 
efforts for producing a great year in 2008. 
Peter Whitbread 
Chief Executive Officer
Lamprell plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
09
