 Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
06
Chief 
Executive 
Officer’s 
Statement
“Lamprell’s combined strengths of prudent 
cost management and operational excellence 
has enabled us to deliver a solid revenue 
performance set against a backdrop of 
challenging operating conditions which are 
universally acknowledged to have been the 
most difficult in a generation.”
Nigel McCue, Chief Executive Officer
As expected, 2009 proved to be a 
turbulent year for global markets. The 
financial crisis led to lower oil and gas 
prices, a severe, and continuing, 
disruption of the worldwide credit market 
and overall economic uncertainty which 
has led to lower capital investment by our 
clients in all sectors of our business. It is 
pleasing, therefore, under these 
circumstances, to be able to report a very 
solid annual performance for the 
Company, with revenues of USD 426 
million resulting in a net profit of USD 54 
million, restated to USD 28 million after 
one-off charges in respect of one, 
previously announced, project.
We have always sought to run our 
business conservatively without any 
long-term debt. Never before has the 
importance of a strong balance sheet and 
a rigorous approach to cost control in all 
facets of our business been so important 
to the Company. Lamprell’s combined 
strengths of prudent cost management 
and operational excellence has enabled 
us to deliver a solid revenue performance 
set against a backdrop of challenging 
operating conditions which are universally 
acknowledged to have been the most 
difficult in a generation.
Throughout the Company’s history, the 
quality of our project execution has 
underpinned our longstanding client 
relationships and resulted in a significant 
amount of repeat business, and we remain 
committed to achieving the highest 
standards of excellence for our customers. It 
is the source of much pride that even against 
the extremely volatile backdrop of the last 18 
months we have been able to maintain our 
benchmark of engineering quality, delivering 
projects on time and on budget.
USD 426m
Revenues
USD 28m
Net profit Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
07
Business overview
“Throughout the Company’s history, 
the quality of our project execution has 
underpinned our longstanding client 
relationships and resulted in a significant 
amount of repeat business, and we remain 
committed to achieving the highest standards 
of excellence for our customers.”
In this regard, 2009 saw the completion 
of projects that I believe reinforce our 
reputation for delivery as well as opening 
up opportunities with the potential for 
significant growth for the Company in the 
coming years.
In our EPC business March and June 
respectively saw the delivery of two harsh 
environment, self-propelled, self-elevating 
liftboats, the Kraken and the Leviathan, to 
Seajacks for use in the North Sea wind 
farm market. The successful completion of 
these significant contracts ideally positions 
us to take advantage of forthcoming 
opportunities in the much publicised 
expansion of the European, and 
worldwide, offshore wind farm market. The 
recent prestigious contract award for the 
construction of two highly sophisticated 
wind farm installation liftboats for Fred 
Olsen Windcarrier AS in February 2010 
further underpins our confidence in  
this sector.
In April 2009 the new build LeTourneau 
Super 116E jackup drilling rig, Offshore 
Freedom, was delivered to Scorpion, on 
time and on budget. The construction of 
the second unit, Offshore Mischief, is on 
schedule and on budget for delivery in 
the second quarter 2010.
We were also pleased to have resolved 
the outstanding payment issue relating to 
the tender assist drilling barge, BassDrill 
Alpha, being built for BassDrill. Lamprell 
delivered its first new build tender assist 
drilling barge, BassDrill Alpha, in January 
2010. The company received cash 
payment of USD 55 million and 28 million 
shares in BassDrill, which represented 
20% of the equity of BassDrill, equivalent 
at the subscription price of USD 0.1786  
to USD 5 million and subject to an  
option agreement.
Future Developments
As previously reported, capital 
expenditure on the expansion of our new 
250,000m² facility in the Hamriyah Free 
Zone was phased in light of the prevailing 
economic conditions. Notwithstanding 
this, we have already felt the benefit of the 
additional capacity which the new yard 
provides. Despite the slowdown in the 
development of the facility earlier last 
year, the quayside at the new facility has 
been in partial use since April 2009 when 
the first jackup rig and since then the 
facility has seen a further 13 rigs at the 
quayside. In addition the Offshore 
Freedom new build jackup was 
completed and delivered at the quayside 
of our new facility. We now look forward 
to a number of rig upgrade and 
refurbishment projects being executed at 
this facility in 2010.
The Company continues to pursue new 
opportunities that the expanded site 
allows, such as those relating to the 
construction and refurbishment of 
semi-submersible drilling rigs, and 
drillship refurbishment, supporting the 
overall strategic and commercial 
reasoning behind the Company’s 
decision to build greater capacity.
Given the overall strengthening in the 
markets we have recently committed to a 
further capital expenditure programme of 
USD 25 million to complete the 
development of the facility by early 2011. 
This funding will provide for the 
completion of an 800 man office block, 
additional workshops, fabrication pads 
and utility distribution infrastructure.
Market Overview
The new build market for liftboats for 
offshore wind turbine installation provides 
Lamprell with an opportunity to establish 
itself as an early leader in a growing 
market. The success of the UK 
Government’s recent offshore wind farm 
licensing round in January 2010 
reinforced the international interest in the 
offshore sector; the current constraint on 
liftboat capacity means we are well 
placed to capitalise on the construction 
opportunities this presents. Accordingly 
this area represents a significant 
proportion of our bidding pipeline.
Our recently announced contract award 
to design and construct two offshore well 
head platforms for an offshore gas field 
development in India represents a 
successful step to secure more work in 
this sector.
As outlined previously, the new build 
market for jack-up rigs continues to be 
constrained by existing capacity, new 
build rigs entering the market for the first 
time together with the ongoing impact of 
budget cuts arising from the oil price 
collapse eighteen months ago.
We previously reported that we 
anticipated seeing the regional rig 
refurbishment market dip in the light of 
the economic conditions and whilst we 
saw the level of rig activity exceed our 
expectations, the level of expenditure 
decreased, as expected, as a result of the 
market conditions. Both our Sharjah and 
new Hamriyah facilities were busy 
throughout the year undertaking upgrade 
and refurbishment projects. In total 33 
jackup rigs projects were undertaken, 
including two jackups at our Sattahip 
facility in Thailand. There are currently 
nine jackup rigs at our UAE facilities and 
we look forward to a busy year in this 
area of our business. We continue to 
expand our services to clients who 
require work to be undertaken outside of 
our own yards. A case in point being 
Transocean who awarded Lamprell the 
contract for the upgrade and  Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
08
Chief 
Executive 
Officer’s 
Statement
(continued)
refurbishment of the Key Manhattan 
jackup drilling unit. This project was 
undertaken in Croatia by Lamprell at the 
Nauta Lamjana shipyard. The initial 
contract value was USD 13.4 million and 
the work scope includes extensive steel 
renewals and associated painting works, 
structural repairs to the cantilever and 
derrick, and the replacement of hull 
piping systems. The work commenced 
during September 2009 and was 
completed in March 2010.
In the FPSO market, Saipem, one of 
Lamprell’s key customers, awarded a 
USD 18.1 million contract for the 
construction of six process modules, 
pipe-rack sections and interconnecting 
pipe spools for the Aquila Phase 2 FPSO 
Project. The modules will be constructed 
at our Jebel Ali facility and are scheduled 
to be completed in November 2010. We 
are presently seeing a slow recovery in 
this sector of our business which had 
seen a significant decline due to low 
commodity prices and the effects of the 
global financial crisis.
Activities relating to land rigs have 
continued and we were pleased to deliver 
four new build API 2000 HP fast moving 
land rigs during 2009. In addition to the 
new build projects we also successfully 
worked on a number of land rig 
refurbishment and rotary equipment 
repair projects. There have been a 
number of land rigs which have been 
temporarily laid up during 2009, reflecting 
a lower oil price and the impact of the 
worldwide financial uncertainty, and the 
period of this slow down in land rig 
activity extended further than we 
originally anticipated. However, because 
of the regional dynamics of the Middle 
Eastern market, we anticipate a recovery 
in land drilling activities in the Middle East 
in 2010 and this provides management 
with confidence that both the 
refurbishment and new build land rig 
markets will recover in the region and will 
be attractive for Lamprell for some years 
to come.
The Board
As previously advised, in March 2009, 
Jonathan Silver was appointed Non-
Executive Chairman of the Board. I took 
over as CEO from Peter Whitbread in May 
of 2009 and would like to thank Peter, 
who continued on the Board as the 
Director of International Development, for 
making the transition as smooth and 
efficient as possible. Peter has decided to 
retire at the time of the AGM and I would 
like to take this opportunity to express my 
further thanks for the enormous 
contribution he has made to the growth 
and success of the Company over the 
past 18 years.
Dividend
The Board of Directors is recommending 
a final dividend payment of 3.80 cents per 
ordinary share, with a Sterling equivalent 
of 2.55 pence per ordinary share. This will 
be payable, when approved, on 16 June 
2010 to eligible shareholders on the 
register at 14 May 2010.
Outlook
Despite the challenging market backdrop, 
2010 has started positively, as evidenced 
by the major contract awards announced 
in the first quarter of the year. We have a 
substantial order book extending into 
2012 and this combined with our tender 
pipeline, development strategy and the 
ongoing expansion of our facilities 
supports our confidence for future growth 
and success.
Whilst we are seeing positive signs and 
evidence of improvements in our markets 
they currently continue to remain 
3.80 cents
Dividend (per ordinary share)
“We continue to expand our services to 
clients who require work to be undertaken 
outside of our own yards.” Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
09
Business overview
competitive. With our shareholders in 
mind, it is therefore a priority for 
management to remain focussed on 
pro-actively managing the Company’s 
cost base and ensuring first class project 
execution. We remain confident that our 
long-term prospects continue to be 
promising based upon our strong 
platform for growth.
I would like to take this opportunity to 
express the thanks and appreciation of 
the Board of Directors, and my personal 
thanks, to all of our management and 
employees for their support and efforts 
throughout a challenging 2009. In 
addition, I would finally like to thank our 
founder and President of the Company, 
Steven Lamprell, for his continuing 
support, which is very much appreciated.
Nigel McCue
Chief Executive Officer
“We remain confident that our long-term 
prospects continue to be promising based 
upon our strong platform for growth.”
