 Lamprell plc     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
04
Chairman’s 
Statement
2009 was a challenging year for the 
Company with unprecedented trading 
conditions around the globe. 
Jonathan Silver, Chairman
Steven D. Lamprell, President
Despite these conditions and increased 
competition, Lamprell was able to achieve 
solid financial results at the same time as 
continuing to position itself, through 
capacity expansion, operating efficiencies 
and a wider service offering, for the many 
opportunities that the changing economic 
and industrial environment will bring. As 
the start of 2010 has already 
demonstrated, Lamprell is well placed to 
harness these opportunities.
Lamprell generated revenue in 2009 of 
USD 426 million, adjusted net profit of 
USD 28 million and fully diluted and 
adjusted earnings per share of 14.20 
cents. Given the challenging market 
conditions and the dramatic reduction of 
credit in Lamprell’s operating markets, 
these metrics represent a very solid 
performance for the year.
A landmark year for Lamprell as the first 
three Engineering, Procurement and 
Construction contracts delivered on time 
and on budget.
Lamprell announces USD 320.4 
million of contract awards. Contract 
awards from Fred Olsen Windcarrier AS 
which in aggregate total USD 320.4 million. 
Each Engineering, Procurement & 
Construction contract award from 
Windcarrier is for the design, construction 
and delivery of a Gusto MSC NG-9000 
self elevating and self propelled offshore 
wind turbine installation vessel.
A landmark year La mp r e l l pl c     
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
05
Business overview
In response to the challenging trading 
conditions that the Company experienced 
at the beginning of the year, the Board 
has taken action to manage the 
Company’s finances prudently and to 
utilise the Company’s flexible business 
model to control the cost base tightly. 
This has ensured the ongoing financial 
health of the business. Management have 
focused much time and effort on 
developing the Company’s bid pipeline 
and replenishing its order book. We are 
seeing the fruits of those labours with 
more than USD 3.7 billion of bids 
outstanding at the year end and USD 420 
million of contracts awarded since then.
The foundation for these awards remains 
Lamprell’s reputation for high quality 
project execution, which enables it to win 
repeat business as well as attracting 
major, new customers, as seen with the 
recent contract awards. 2009 saw the 
completion of several significant projects 
including the delivery, in April 2009, of the 
Company’s first new-build jackup rig, the 
Offshore Freedom and the successful 
completion, for Seajacks, of two liftboats 
for wind turbine installation. The latter 
project, in particular, marks the Company’s 
entry into an exciting new market with 
encouraging growth potential.
In May 2009 our COO Nigel McCue took 
over as CEO from Peter Whitbread, who 
has remained on the Board in the role as 
Director of International Development. 
Peter retires by rotation at the time of the 
AGM in June and has decided to retire 
from the Company at that time and not 
offer himself for reappointment. I would 
like to take this opportunity to thank Peter 
for the tremendous contribution that he 
has made to the Company over the years.
I am pleased to announce that, having 
considered the current market conditions, 
profit earned and cash generated during 
the year ended 31 December 2009, the 
Board is recommending a dividend of 
3.80 cents per share. If approved, this will 
be paid to shareholders on 16 June 2010 
provided they were on the register on  
14 May 2010.
I believe that the Board is well-equipped 
to meet the challenges that this volatile 
and rapidly changing market presents 
and I am confident that Lamprell’s 
reputation for quality, technical capability, 
project execution and delivery, coupled 
with the experience of Lamprell’s 
management and staff, will provide a 
strong platform for further successes  
in 2010.
Jonathan Silver
Chairman 
Lamprell plc
Lamprell delivers “Seajacks Kraken” 
the first self elevating, self propelled 
Liftboat to Seajacks. This is the first of 
two harsh environment, new build 
projects undertaken at our Jebel Ali facility. 
The Kraken was successfully delivered on 
schedule in March 2009.
Lamprell delivers newbuild jack up 
rig “Offshore Freedom” to owners 
Scorpion. The delivery marks the first of 
two LeTourneau designed Super 116E 
rigs that Lamprell are contracted to 
deliver to Scorpion Offshore. The rig has 
a water depth operating capability of 350 
feet and can drill to a depth of 30,000 
feet, with luxury quarters for 110 crew.
Lamprell delivers “Seajacks 
Leviathan” the second self elevating, 
self propelled Liftboat to Seajacks. 
Intended for use in harsh environment 
conditions. Both of the Seajacks vessels 
were detailed designed and constructed 
by Lamprell’s to meet the strenuous 
Northern European Offshore 
Construction Codes and practices.
