 12 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011
USD 333m
Contract award from National Drilling Company 
in Abu Dhabi 
2011 was a very positive year for the 
Company, with contract awards 
totalling USD 1.1bn together with a 
backlog of USD 1.2bn at the year-end. 
The transformational acquisition of 
Maritime Industrial Services Co. Ltd. 
Inc. (“MIS”) significantly contributed to 
consolidating our position as a market 
leader in the provision of contracting 
products and services in the oil & gas 
and renewables industry together with 
increasing our reach into new regional 
markets. Ongoing strength in the oil 
price has also helped to bolster a 
record bid pipeline and we ended the 
year with unprecedented levels of 
enquiries and bid activity. 
The results for the year were very pleasing 
with revenues totalling USD 1,148m, 
resulting in an adjusted net profit for  
the year of USD 73.8m (USD 63.3m 
after exceptional charges) reinforcing  
the firm commercial foundations of  
the business.
Our longstanding strategy of 
maintaining a strong balance sheet has 
continued to underpin our disciplined 
fiscal approach to our business even as 
markets became more active, and 
this rigorous control remains central 
to our activities.
We also continue to focus on delivering 
best in class execution of projects, and 
once again in 2011 we saw the benefits 
of this delivery-led strategy as repeat 
business contributed significantly to 
revenues. 
The Group maintains a substantial 
order book extending to Q2 2014 which 
at the end of 2011, was USD 1.2bn, 
comprising USD 914m from new build 
marine projects, USD 220m from 
offshore construction projects, 
including offshore wellhead platforms, 
floating production storage and 
offloading units and accommodation 
modules, USD 17m from Land Rig 
Services, USD 14m from Jackup Rig 
Refurbishment projects, and USD 50m 
from the Group’s other fabrication 
activities and subsidiary operating 
companies.
The Company continues to place great 
emphasis on the development and 
application of practices designed to 
provide a workplace that is both safe 
and which minimises environmental 
impact. We are proud of our safety 
record; in 2011 the lost-time injury 
frequency was 0.27 , significantly below 
the UK construction industry average 
for similar businesses.
There remains widespread uncertainty 
regarding the macro economic climate, 
although we have seen negligible 
impact on our business. Continued 
strength in the oil price has ensured 
that operator activity and investment 
Chief Executive’s Review
Nigel McCue 13 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011
USD 7 26m
Value of our order book at year end  
from repeat customers
remains high, and sentiment 
throughout the industry supply chain is 
positive. However, we can never be 
complacent about this situation given 
the prevailing macro economic issues 
and we continue to keep a close watch 
on our costs and ability to remain 
flexible throughout the business.
The year was a very strong one for contract 
wins, with awards being boosted by 
contracts for New Build Jackup, New 
Build Offshore and Land Rig Services. 
Significant project milestones during 
the year included the contract award 
from Greatship Global Energy 
Services, Singapore, announced in 
February 2011. This award was an 
early indicator of the strength of the 
jackup rig market throughout the year; 
strength that was further demonstrated 
both by the exercise by the National 
Drilling Company, Abu Dhabi, of its 
option for the construction by Lamprell 
of two LeTourneau Super 116E Class 
jackup rigs valued at USD 333m, and 
the contract award by Jindal Pipes 
(Singapore) also for a LeTourneau 
Super 116E Class jackup rig. 
The USD 41m contract with Weatherford 
Drilling International, announced in 
March 2011, for the engineering, 
construction and delivery of two 3000 
HP land drilling rigs, was the largest 
yet for our Land Rig Services business, 
demonstrating the exciting opportunity 
to develop Lamprell’s offering in this 
emerging regional market. Delivery of 
the rigs is scheduled for Q1 2012 and 
construction is almost complete at our 
Jebel Ali facility.
We were also pleased to announce in 
November 2011 the award, by Nexen 
Petroleum U.K. Limited, of two platform 
deck construction contracts for the 
Golden Eagle Development in the UK 
North Sea. The offshore fixed platform 
market remains strong and the 
Company is well positioned to benefit 
from that strength both regionally and 
internationally.
Acquisition of MIS
The acquisition of MIS, for a total 
consideration of NOK 1,869m (USD 
338m), was completed on 13 July 2011, 
and was a transformational step for  
the Group. The acquisition expanded 
the breadth and depth of our service 
offering, our customer base, the 
geographical range of our operations 
and consolidated Lamprell’s position  
as a regional leader in the new build 
jackup rig market. Additionally, the 
significant increase in resources and 
expertise also further enhances our 
position for future profitable growth.
The acquisition of MIS was compelling 
both financially and operationally. We 
believe that this transaction will rapidly 
create value for our shareholders, and 
we anticipate that the transaction will 
be substantially earnings accretive in 
the first full year of ownership. As the 
enlarged Group moves forward we 
see both new business opportunities 
and operational and financial synergies, 
with cost synergies of USD 11m per 
year expected to be realised as 
planned. Lamprell now has over 
925,000m
2
 of yard space and 2.2km 
of quayside, making the Company 
one of the largest players within the 
Middle East region. 
 
The strong complementary fit between 
Lamprell and MIS has enhanced 
our in-house engineering capabilities, 
providing extra capacity and key 
resources and adding a number of 
established businesses in target 
geographies. Lamprell is now able 
to pursue new opportunities through 
its enhanced resource and 
technical competence. 
 
We see real competitive advantage in 
the Company’s newly combined 
engineering offering and our ability to 
offer a vertically integrated service to our 
clients through conceptual engineering, 
process design engineering and detailed 
The results for the year 
were very pleasing  
with revenues totalling 
USD 1, 148m, resulting in 
an adjusted net profit for 
the year of USD 73.8m.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011
engineering. This will help increase 
margins by removing the need to 
outsource process design engineering, 
and the enlarged Group now has greater 
access to new business in the 
downstream and onshore sectors.
 
Management initiated a detailed 
integration plan with an integration 
committee appointed involving senior 
representatives from both Lamprell and 
MIS in order to identify and maximise 
synergies. Following meetings of the 
committee the organisational structure 
of the enlarged Group was finalised  
and savings identified. Integration of  
the two companies has been largely 
completed, with the operational 
structure finalised and in place. 
 
The physical relocation of the MIS 
management and finance teams has 
taken place and operationally the 
integration of yards is complete. 
Notably, the MIS facility in Sharjah has 
been integrated with the adjacent 
Lamprell yard. 
The acquisition added over 4,000 
people to our workforce which now 
totals 14,000 including labour supply 
personnel, and it is to the great credit of 
all our staff that the integration process 
has proceeded smoothly.
The Board
In April, Jonathan Cooper was 
appointed as Chief Financial Officer, 
bringing with him extensive experience 
in the oil and gas sector. Jonathan took 
up his position in October, and I am 
certain he will make a very valuable 
contribution in the coming years. I am 
pleased that Scott Doak, Jonathan’s 
predecessor, has decided to remain 
with the Company in the new role of 
Integration and Development Director.
We were delighted to welcome 
Christopher Hand, Chief Operating 
Officer, to the Board in January 2011. 
Market overview
The Company has a record bid pipeline 
which at the end of February 2012 
amounted to USD 5.2bn. The increase  
in activity levels in the new build jackup 
rig market that was seen in 2010 
continued into 2011, and that market 
segment remains buoyant. With eight 
jackup rigs currently under construction 
Lamprell has become one of the 
leading builders in the world. As  
the search for oil & gas becomes 
increasingly more technically 
demanding, rigs that can drill horizontal 
wells more cost effectively in deeper, 
harsh environment, waters, will demand 
higher day rates and hence will help 
drive the new build rig construction 
market. In this regard, the Company is 
actively looking to construct the next 
generation of much larger, higher 
specification, jackup rigs to meet these 
technological challenges.
As previously reported, we experienced a 
slowdown in the rig refurbishment market 
in the second half of 2010 but there are 
now encouraging signs of renewed 
activity triggered by a significant upturn  
in the Saudi Arabian market. We continue 
to see significant potential for Lamprell in 
the liftboat market for both the oil & gas 
and renewables sectors in the medium 
and longer terms and aim to build on our 
early leadership position in this part of  
our business. 
The Company is actively pursuing a 
number of exciting prospects for its 
Land Rig Services business including 
new build land rigs, refurbishment 
projects and equipment overhaul and  
is confident that new business for this 
segment can be secured in the  
coming months.
The current trend in high oil prices 
underpinned by persistent supply  
side concerns and exacerbated by 
geopolitical production constraints 
continues to support significant 
investment in offshore development 
projects internationally and particularly 
in the Middle East region. Lamprell, 
with its experience and well established 
track record in offshore process 
fabrication, is well positioned to take 
advantage of the opportunities that will 
arise in this sector.
Dividend
The Board of Directors is recommending 
a final dividend payment of 8.00 cents 
per ordinary share. This will be payable, 
when approved, on 22 June 2012 to 
eligible shareholders on the register at 
25 May 2012.
Outlook
We continue to see high levels of 
enquiries for our services in most 
sectors of our business. While 
remaining vigilant with regard to the 
risks posed by the volatile global 
economic climate, the Board remains 
optimistic that the long term prospects 
of the Group continue to be promising.
Chief Executive’s Review
continued 15 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011
To underline our growth record it is 
worth highlighting that this is the first 
time in the Company’s history that  
the annual revenue has exceeded 
USD 1bn, in fact totalling USD 1.15bn. 
Ten years ago in 2002 the Company 
turned over USD 80m and in 2006, the 
year of our AIM listing, we turned over 
USD 330m; percentage increases of 
1,333% and 248% respectively. With 
the business opportunities currently 
available to us, we look forward to 
continued growth with confidence.
Finally, I would again like to take this 
opportunity to express my personal 
thanks, together with those of the Board 
of Directors, to all of our management, 
staff and employees for their hard work 
and dedication which they have given 
throughout the year. Following the 
acquisition of MIS, Lamprell now has 
over 14,000 employees including labour 
supply personnel, and everyone has 
played their part in the success of the 
Company. On a final note, I would like  
to thank, as ever, our founder and 
President, Steven Lamprell, for his 
continuing encouragement and support.
Nigel McCue
Chief Executive Officer
USD 1, 098m
New contract awards 
Lamprell business model
Competitive 
advantage
Best in class execution  
of projects, on time and 
on budget
Value
Operations
Downstream &  
onshore clients
Expansion
Enhanced resource & 
technical competence
Synergy
Conceptual, design &  
detailed engineering
Diversity
Wider access to global 
markets and sectors
Positioning
The Board remains 
optimistic that the  
long term prospects  
of the Group continue  
to be promising.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
