 04 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Lamprell recovered well in 2013 
after the challenges of 2012 and 
returned to profitability as a 
result of strong management and 
good operational performance, as 
well as tighter financial controls. 
During 2013, the new management team 
implemented robust project execution plans 
to deliver our major projects as planned, with 
much improved financial results. We have 
committed resources to ensure that we 
maintain and improve on our existing high 
standards of safety and quality and we are 
pleased to note client satisfaction remains 
positive. Our clients demonstrated ongoing 
support for the Group as evidenced by 
several major new contract awards 
announced during the year. 
Corporate governance and Board 
changes
The Board believes that strong corporate 
governance is important and it is applying the 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. In 2013, the Board continued to 
improve the Group’s management structure 
and corporate governance standards, and 
further details are contained in our corporate 
governance report. 
There were several Board and senior 
management changes principally in the first 
half of the year. I was pleased to welcome Jim 
Moffat as the new CEO, Joanne Curin as the 
new CFO and Michael Press, Ellis Armstrong 
and John Malcolm as independent Non-
Executive Directors. Peter Whitbread moved 
from an executive to a non-executive role and 
so we continue to benefit from his vast 
experience. The reinvigorated Board brings 
John Kennedy
Non-Executive Chairman
significant industry, strategic and operational 
experience as well as an international 
perspective, and I am confident that it will be 
instrumental in securing Lamprell’s future. 
We successfully addressed the concerns 
raised by the Financial Services Authority (the 
“FSA”, now the Financial Conduct Authority) 
during the settlement of its investigations in 
March 2013 and strengthened the Group’s 
systems and processes, as also outlined in 
our corporate governance report. 
The new Board and management team made 
it their priority to improve transparency of the 
decision-making process within the Group. 
Board meetings have included presentations 
from management on key aspects of the 
business such as strategy and succession 
planning. The new management team has 
conducted an in-depth review of the Group’s 
strategy, and the Board has played an integral 
part in guiding this process. 
The Board has implemented a process for 
ongoing evaluation of its effectiveness, as 
well as that of the Board Committees and 
the individual Directors. The process has 
confirmed that the Board, Board Committees 
and individual Directors are performing 
effectively and provided specific feedback 
which will enhance Board performance. 
There have been improvements within the 
control framework as the Group commenced 
replacement of its existing ERP system with a 
A positive and 
sustainable future
Chairman’s Statement Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 05
Risk          Strategy
Shareholders           Leadership           Effectiveness
new integrated system. Implementation is on 
plan and we expect to see further 
improvements in the information flow within 
the Group during 2014.
Finally, in 2013 the Group had more regular 
communication with its shareholders and the 
wider investor community. This included 
formal meetings with investors, analysts and 
media at various points throughout the year 
and in particular for the full year and interim 
results. We place considerable importance on 
maintaining and further developing our 
relationships with our shareholders through 
regular and effective communication.
Stronger financial position
A key development of 2013 was the 
reinforcement of the Group’s financial 
position. The new finance team introduced 
stronger financial controls and improved cash 
management. In June, the Group 
renegotiated its debt facility and secured 
longer-term financing totaling USD 181 
million. This new arrangement significantly 
simplified the Company’s capital structure, as 
it reduced the number of lending banks to 
five, and rationalised the covenants to a 
common basis.
Key areas of focus for our Board.
Dividends
Given the restrictions under the debt facility, 
the Group will not be paying a dividend for 
the 12-month period ended 31 December 
2013. The Board is acutely aware of the 
importance of dividends to investors, and will 
review the Group’s dividend policy when its 
financial position improves further and the 
constraints have been removed.
Strategy 
The Group’s primary goals for 2013 were to 
strengthen the underlying organisation and 
project execution, and to deliver existing 
projects effectively and efficiently. Having 
achieved these goals, the management team 
undertook a detailed review of our strategy 
in late 2013 and early 2014. We will focus on 
growing our core businesses, building on our 
proven expertise and track record in project 
execution, together with broadening the 
Group’s reach and client portfolio within its 
core markets.
In parallel, the Group has started to dispose 
of non-core service businesses, including the 
successful disposal of the Inspec service 
business in March 2014 for USD 66.2 million, 
the proceeds for which were used to pay 
down a significant portion of our debt facility. 
Conclusion
Lamprell made great progress during 2013, 
improving project execution significantly and 
addressing the legacy issues, and as a result 
the Company returned to profitability. In 
2013 we implemented a series of productivity 
and process improvements, as well as certain 
cost efficiencies, which we plan to continue 
and develop further during 2014. We have 
strengthened our business development 
function and are now working on rebuilding 
the order book to position the Company for 
future growth. The Board remains focused 
on ensuring the business has a strong 
financial platform to deliver its strategy.
John Kennedy
Chairman
Lamprell plc
“Lamprell made great 
progress during 2013 and 
the Board is focused on 
ensuring the business has 
a strong financial platform 
to deliver its strategy.”  06 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Close client  
relations
National  
Drilling Company 
(“NDC”) 
Project: NDC “Qarnin” rig
Type: LeTourneau Super 116E rig
Facility: Hamriyah
Delivery: February 2014
The contract for the NDC “Qarnin” rig 
was signed in October 2011 and this 
is the third rig in a series of six identical 
rigs being built and delivered by 
Lamprell to the client, NDC. NDC is a 
major customer for Lamprell for both 
jackup rigs and land-based rigs.  Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 07
