 10 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
2013 marked an important 
turning point for the Group. At 
the start of the year, we faced a 
number of challenges but, 
through the skills and 
commitment of all our 
employees, we were able not 
only to navigate the path to 
recovery but to deliver 
significantly improved financial 
results. To achieve this, the 
Group has focused on its key 
strengths in its traditional 
business streams and 
implemented a number of 
fundamental improvements in 
its project execution. We 
anticipate this focus on core 
markets to continue to form the 
basis of our business in the near 
term as we look to build on the 
performance in 2013.
Year in review
At the time of joining Lamprell in March 
2013, I was impressed by the underlying 
strengths of the franchise but it was clear to 
me that further actions were required in 
order to keep the recovery process on track. 
One of our immediate priorities was to build 
on the work of the interim management 
team to improve our operational 
performance and to complete our existing 
projects, and in particular the key 
underperforming projects, as effectively and 
efficiently as possible.
In order to align the Group’s management 
organisation more closely with its projects, a 
number of changes were made to strengthen 
the management team. New appointments 
included a VP Projects, VP HSE, VP 
Procurement and VP Finance. Jo Curin joined 
as CFO in October 2013. More recently, we 
have recruited a new Chief Commercial 
Officer and a VP Business Development. This 
new management team benefits from the 
combined knowledge within the legacy 
Lamprell operations and the experience and 
expertise of the new appointees. 
It was also crucial for the growth of the 
business to develop a strong culture of 
continuous improvement and we successfully 
implemented a series of initiatives to enhance 
project execution and improve efficiencies 
within the wider business. We instilled a 
more disciplined and structured approach to 
James Moffat
Chief Executive Officer
our operational performance to drive down 
our cost base, resulting in a 17% reduction  
in our facility and corporate overhead costs. 
As part of this, we developed and regularly 
monitored key performance indicators.  
We launched the first phase of a new ERP 
system which went live in February 2014.
Throughout this same period, it has been  
my objective to nurture and develop our key 
differentiators, namely high standards of 
safety and quality, a commitment to reliability, 
a keen focus on client satisfaction and a 
strong management team. It is my strong 
belief that a safe working environment will 
deliver significant benefits to the business 
such as enhanced productivity, client 
satisfaction and ultimately stronger financial 
performance. These key strengths form an 
integral part of the culture of continuous 
improvement and I am proud to see that  
we are consistently achieving world class 
standards on our current projects.
Focused on delivery
In 2013, the Group maintained its position  
as one of the leaders in construction of new 
build jackup rigs in the sub-350 feet class. 
We completed three rigs during the year with 
an additional rig delivered in February 2014. 
In total, since 2006, the Group has delivered 
15 new build jackup drilling rigs, including 
eight LeTourneau Super 116E rigs.
Good progress on 
path to recovery
Chief Executive Officer’s Review Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11
Order book and bid pipeline
Order book as at 31 December 2013
Newbuild jackups 694m
Offshore construction 30m
Renewable energy 32m
Rig refurbishment 62m
Land rigs 20m
Other 24m
NOTE: 15 added to all so that bottom 2 ﬁgures don’t produce egg timer shapes
Bid pipeline as at 31 December 2013
Newbuild jackups 2,155m
Offshore construction 2,084m
Rig refurbishment
1
112m
Renewable energy 100m
Land rigs 174m
Other 77m
NOTE: 60 added to all* so that bottom 4 ﬁgures don’t produce egg timer shapes 
*though, of course, not to visible totals
1 Refurbishment value stream has a short bid to award profile and therefore limited order 
book/pipeline values.
During 2013, the Group also demonstrated a 
strong performance in its offshore 
construction business stream, delivering two 
major topside structures on schedule. In 
November, we completed the final set of 
process modules to another client for use in 
the North Sea. These structures further 
strengthened our reputation for building 
high quality, large-scale complex decks.
In Q1 2013, the Group also delivered the 
Windcarrier “Bold Tern” windfarm 
installation vessel to Fred. Olsen, the fifth 
liftboat that Lamprell has delivered in six 
years. Notwithstanding the challenges that 
we experienced on this complex project, we 
are very proud of the high quality of the final 
product, which is operating successfully in 
the North Sea region. 
While the rig refurbishment and upgrade 
business experienced a quieter year, the 
Group nevertheless worked on 22 projects 
during the period. In the second half of the 
year we commenced work on a major rig 
conversion and refurbishment project for 
Millennium Offshore Services group 
(“MOS”). This project demonstrates the 
Group’s ability and willingness to develop 
innovative solutions to support its clients, 
particularly in its core markets. 
The land rig segment had a steady year. 
Highlights include the completion of a 
fast-moving rig upgrade for National Drilling 
Company (“NDC”) and the design and 
fabrication of coiled tubing towers for  
a number of oilfield services companies.  
The Group also completed the process  
for certification for its proprietary land rig 
design and will look to market this to clients 
during 2014.
Market overview, order book and 
bidding 
Overall order intake during 2013 was lower 
than in previous years. This was primarily due 
to delays in project awards and our focus on 
project execution in our core markets as we 
repositioned the business for a return to 
profitability. Despite the challenges facing 
the business, we retained the support of  
our clients and secured two major contract 
awards for the construction of two Super 
116E rigs and the contract award from  
MOS for the largest rig conversion and 
refurbishment in Lamprell’s history.
As we move into 2014, we remain focused on 
the conversion of our pipeline of opportunities 
into contract wins. We believe that Lamprell is 
well placed to win new rig contracts arising 
from a combination of our key differentiators 
and the operators’ need to replace aging 
global rig fleets. In the offshore construction 
sector, we have noted the projected slowdown 
in overall capital expenditure but, with our 
strong track record in modular construction 
projects, we believe that the opportunities in 
the market for our high build quality and cost 
efficiency will yield greater returns in the 
medium to long term. 
As at 31 December 2013, the Group’s order 
book was valued at USD 0.9 billion (30 June 
2013: USD 1.1 billion). As of 31 December 
2013, the Group’s bid pipeline was valued at 
approximately USD 4.7 billion (30 June 2013: 
USD 4.6 billion), representing the broad 
range of bids across various business 
divisions. We have strengthened our business 
development capabilities and we are in active 
dialogue with a number of prospective 
clients for new orders, with the goal of 
rebuilding the order book.
Strategy
Throughout 2013, we targeted improved 
project execution and reducing overheads. 
We have carried out a detailed review of the 
Group’s strategy and concluded that, for the 
medium term, we will continue to focus on 
our existing core businesses, namely new 
build rigs, offshore construction, liftboats,  
rig refurbishments and land rig services.  
Our long-term goal is to broaden our 
offering into related markets including 
topsides and modular LNG and onshore 
plants and re-entering the FPSO markets 
where we have already been successful.  
With this in mind, we are now focused  
on maintaining and enhancing our 
competitiveness by strengthening client 
relationships in our core markets and 
improving productivity and cost efficiency. 
Outlook
In 2013 the Group made good progress on 
its path to recovery and we are aiming to 
build on this in 2014 through the 
implementation of our strategy. The order 
intake during 2013 was lower than in 
previous years and accordingly revenues for 
2014 and 2015 are expected to be slightly 
lower than 2013 while the Group rebuilds its 
order book. In the meantime, we are 
focusing on improving productivity and cost 
efficiency in the business and we expect to 
start seeing the results from our 
improvements during the course of 2014, 
although the full benefit is not anticipated to 
materialise until 2015. 
Jim Moffat
Chief Executive Officer
Lamprell plc
“We are continuing to 
implement productivity 
improvements and  
cost efficiency in the 
business and we will 
start to see the benefits 
during 2014.” 12 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
World-class 
safety 
standards Overview Financial Statements
Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13
Corporate Governance Strategic Report
Nexen  
Golden Eagle 
Development
Project: Nexen Golden Eagle 
Development
Type: Wellhead Platform
Facility: Jebel Ali
Delivery: June 2013
This 4,000 tonne deck was constructed  
in our Jebel Ali facility for use in the  
North Sea and was completed to world 
class standards of safety and quality, 
confirming Lamprell’s reputation as one 
of the few fabricators in the MENA region 
that has the expertise and capability  
to build large scale complex projects. 
