 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
04
Strategic report: Chairman’s statement
strengthening 
our business
2014 was a successful 
year for Lamprell. I am 
pleased to report on the 
significant progress achieved 
operationally and financially .
Following its return to profitability in 2013, 
the Group completed its recovery process 
in delivering an exceptional financial 
performance and a number of major 
operational milestones. These results have 
been driven by strong project execution and 
major business improvements, allowing the 
Group to deliver improved returns. 
Delivering strong performance
This improved performance has been 
possible as a result of robust project 
execution and the implementation of 
important structural changes. A strong  
cost discipline has been established,  
with significant reductions achieved.  
This is being monitored closely by the 
Board. The safety and quality standards 
in our yards are paramount and in 2014 
achieved world-class levels. The Company 
disposed of a non-core business to allow 
the management team to focus on core 
markets. Lamprell is now leaner , fitter and 
stronger , and aiming to accomplish more.
Strategy
Beyond operational performance, Lamprell’s 
overall success is highly geared to its  
ability to win new business. In the first half 
of 2014, we took steps to overhaul our 
strategy and the business development 
function to ensure that the Group remains 
competitive. The Board reviewed the 
strategy  page 08 and concluded that 
there was a need to focus on our core 
markets in the short to medium term.  
Our long-term goal is to broaden our 
offering into related areas such as the 
modular plant and FPSO markets where 
we have already been successful and 
have a proven track record. In doing 
this we will leverage the Group’s proven 
expertise in project execution to diversify 
our client base. Key strategic principles are: 
focus on high quality clients, on improved 
margin projects and on bids with a higher 
probability of winning. 
Financial platform and stakeholders
A strong financial platform was put in  
place in 2014 to enable the management 
team to implement our strategy . The rights 
issue and refinancing allowed us to ensure 
there is now a strong balance sheet and 
sufficient cash resources to support the 
strategy implementation. 
In line with our commitment to best 
practice in corporate governance, we 
maintained clear controls and looked to 
enhance certain processes such as risk 
management  page 14. Our primary 
focus was on greater communication and 
transparency with our investors when we 
explained the drivers behind the rights 
issue and refinancing; we appreciate the 
overwhelming support we received for  
these transactions. 
Markets
In the final quarter of 2014 we saw a 
significant deterioration in the oil & gas 
markets and reductions in industry capital 
expenditure programmes following a steep 
decline in oil prices. In a period of uncertain 
market environment, the Board has ensured 
that the management team’s remuneration 
targets are stretching and closely linked  
to the Company’s strategic objectives 
 page 55. Our management team is 
measured against every pillar of our 
strategy for success, including Lamprell’s 
safety record, cost management, delivery 
of operational efficiencies and financial 
performance.
John Kennedy
Non-Executive Chairman
