 Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
05
deFining  
our vaL ues
Jim Moffat was appointed to 
the Board in March 2013 as 
Chief Executive Officer . With 
over 35 years in the industry, 
Jim has brought a wealth of 
experience which has seen 
the Group achieve a number 
of records in 2014 and 
deliver the most profitable 
year in its history . 
Q  What were the major highlights and 
your main focus during 2014?
We have seen improvements in virtually 
every aspect of our business. For me, 2014 
was about strengthening the Company and 
building a solid platform for future growth. 
The previous year was focused on steadying 
the ship with our “back to basics” approach. 
Our successful turnaround in 2013 resulted 
in a better start to 2014 and a return to 
profitability . We were therefore able to build 
on this and focus instead on future growth by 
refining and implementing our strategy .
Q  Is the turnaround now complete and 
are the legacy issues in the past?
Lamprell as a business has recovered 
from a loss of USD 110 million in 2012 to 
deliver a profit of nearly USD 120 million in 
2014 which is an impressive achievement. 
We have retained Lamprell’s fundamental 
strengths and based on these we have 
built a business that is financially and 
structurally sound, with a new approach 
to business development, using the robust 
bid procedures now in place. The past 
issues have been addressed and legacy 
projects completed; we have enhanced 
certain systems, including the rollout of a 
new ERP system to assist with monitoring 
and accountability . We can now confidently 
say that the business has moved on from 
securing its recovery to building its future. 
Our exceptional financial performance  
in 2014  page 18 is clear evidence of  
our recovery .
Q  What were your key business 
decisions in 2014?
The return to profitability allowed us to review 
the debt and equity structure of the Company 
from a position of renewed strength. The 
terms of the previous financing package  
that had been secured in 2013 were onerous 
and only represented a short-term financing 
solution. We recognised the need for 
additional financial firepower to fund our  
near-term plans and longer-term ambitions. 
With this in mind, we approached our banks 
and investors requesting a new financial 
structure  page 19, consisting of an equity 
injection through a rights issue and a full 
debt refinancing. Our plans were met with 
overwhelming support and resulted in a fully 
underwritten rights issue of USD 120 million 
and new debt facilities of USD 350 million.
James Moffat
Chief Executive Officer
Strategic report: Chief Executive’s review
Our results
Total shareholder return
(14.2)%
Net profit increased by
223.9%
New awards increased by
88.0% Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
06
Strategic report: Chief Executive’s review
This strengthened balance sheet allowed 
us to implement the key elements of 
our strategy: we commenced a major 
capital investment programme for our 
facilities which will improve our operational 
performance and strengthen our 
competitive position by reducing our costs. 
Q  What have been your operational 
priorities?
Based on an analysis of our operational 
performance for 2013, our core business 
was solid but there was room for significant 
improvements to make Lamprell more 
efficient and productive. On the one 
hand, we had a well-trained workforce; 
good facilities with substantial access to 
quayside; a proven track record and culture 
of delivery, and client-friendly service. 
On the other hand, some of the existing 
techniques required modernisation to 
enhance productivity . In other words, we 
were building high quality products, on time 
and on budget, but I felt that we could do it 
more efficiently and at lower cost.
In order to improve the way we operated, 
we outlined a series of productivity 
and efficiency measures under “Project 
Evolution”. This formed a key component 
of our strategy and half of the funds raised 
in the rights issue were directed towards 
the funding of these measures. Project 
Evolution has been under way since  
mid-2014 and is expected to reach the  
full savings runrate in 2016.
Q  How is Project Evolution going to 
improve your operations?
Project Evolution is intended to improve 
the processes and infrastructure on which 
our operations rely on a day-to-day basis. 
Every aspect of our operation is affected 
– projects, production, engineering, 
procurement, finance, HR, administration 
and IT . We are fortunate to have access to a 
dedicated, well-trained and cost-competitive 
workforce but we are working towards a 
better balance between modern techniques 
and the use of manual labour . For example, 
we are introducing a panel line and beam 
cutting machines in Hamriyah which are 
anticipated to reduce the total manhours 
per project significantly .
We anticipate that Project Evolution 
will also reduce costs associated with 
construction. For example, over the 
course of the last year we have replaced 
stick welding in our yards with flux cored 
arc welding, a more modern technique. 
This is expected to result in a saving 
of up to a third of welders’ time, which 
will have considerable cost implications 
in a business like ours where welding 
accounts for about a third of the total 
manhours spent on building a jackup rig. 
In total, there are over 20 initiatives under 
Project Evolution which will result in a better 
layout and a higher degree of automation in 
our yards, leading to more efficient and cost 
effective operations.
Q  What are the other key pillars of 
success in your strategy?
A strong competitive position relies on 
robust project execution, the right approach 
to business development and a long-term 
vision for growth. Project Evolution will go 
a long way to raising the efficiency of our 
operations but, in order for Lamprell to 
improve, we have been working to embed 
a culture of continuous improvement 
into every aspect of our business, and 
then measure performance against key 
performance indicators.
With our operations improving, we also 
analysed our core markets  page 13 to 
understand our position in the competitive 
landscape. Lamprell remained strong 
in winning orders based on our existing 
strengths of safety  page 21, quality and 
reliability; however , we noted competitors’ 
commercial advantage to offer back-ended 
payments, whereby clients would use the 
fabrication yard’s balance sheet to facilitate 
project construction. The debt refinancing 
package we secured in the summer of 
2014 enables us to offer this option which 
effectively levelled the playing field. This 
significantly broadened our addressable 
market and has already contributed to us 
securing additional contract wins, albeit 
without having to draw on the funding facility .
Safety We deliver world class safety standards and leave 
nothing to chance so everyone goes home safely .
Fiscal responsibility Because every employee influences 
our costs, we are all accountable to ensure that we achieve the 
most cost effective solutions.
Integrity We conduct our business honestly , with professional 
integrity , fairly and transparently , and we are open and ethical in 
our day-to-day dealings with all stakeholders.
Accountability We deliver what we say we will.
Teamwork We strive to work together with our stakeholders and 
believe great teams can achieve incredible things.
our  
vaLues Lamprell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
07
Our approach to winning business has  
been restructured and improved further  
with the hire of a seasoned marketing  
and commercial team. A new Chief 
Commercial Officer and VP Business 
Development have worked on developing 
and implementing a new approach to the 
way that invitations to tender are assessed, 
ranked and submitted  page 10. This 
ensures that our marketing efforts target 
those prospects which are expected to 
suit our yards and facilities best and thus 
yield better returns on investment based 
on the highest probability of a successful 
contract award. This new approach has 
already resulted in us winning a record 
number of awards and the management 
team is looking to use these systems to 
improve the quality of our backlog.
This, along with Project Evolution, helps 
Lamprell to become even more competitive, 
but there are other aspects of the 
business that are crucial to our success.
Q  What other aspects of the strategy  
are you particularly proud of?
Safety is paramount in our operations  
 page 21. I see this as a non-negotiable 
factor in our success – for our staff, our 
clients and ultimately all our stakeholders. 
Lamprell has always operated relatively 
safely but, much in the same way as 
with operations, I saw opportunities for 
substantial improvement. We hired a VP 
of HSESQ in 2013 who has overhauled 
Lamprell’s approach and standards. The 
results speak for themselves: we have cut 
our Total Recordable Injury Rate (“TRIR”) 
to less than half of 0.67 in 2013, which is 
good, to 0.28 in 2014, which is industry 
leading. This is a key consideration for 
high quality operators in making contract 
awards, but most importantly it creates the 
right environment for our operations.
Our operational performance in 2014 was 
strong. We delivered nine major projects, 
a record for the Group. We delivered all 
projects as planned and on budget, and 
as a result made a number of savings, 
benefiting from the release of contingencies 
as well as early results from Project 
Evolution. This had a positive impact on 
our financial performance, which was 
exceptionally strong in 2014. 
This year has seen some major achievements 
in our yards. The Nexen PUQ deck made it 
into the Guinness World Book of Records 
 page 23. We completed our largest 
rig conversion project to date, the “MOS 
Frontier”. We also delivered the last of 
the problematic projects, the “Mercury” 
Caspian Sea rig, which was a challenging 
project with remote operations. Both were 
delivered without a single day away from 
work case. We secured three contracts to 
build six new jackup rigs, two for Ensco, 
two for Shelf Drilling and two for our largest 
client, National Drilling Company (“NDC”). 
We concluded the year with the delivery of 
“Shuwehat”, the third rig delivered in 2014 
to one client, NDC  page 28, another 
record for Lamprell. 
Q  Do you expect to be able to maintain 
this strong performance in the 
challenging market conditions? 
Our financial performance in 2014 was 
exceptional. We will maintain the high 
standards of operational performance 
which was a key factor to the results of 
2014; however in 2015 our ongoing projects 
are at different stages in their construction 
cycles. In addition, the wider market 
environment is weak due to the current oil 
price. Lamprell entered 2015 in a position 
of relative strength – our balance sheet is 
robust, we have a strong cash position, 
we have a high proportion of this year’s 
revenue secured and a good bid pipeline.
The sharp market deterioration at the end of 
the year has brought significant uncertainty 
around 2015. Our business has a certain 
degree of flexibility built in and my team 
will look to mitigate the impact on Lamprell. 
With the Board’s support and direction, 
we expect to be able to weather the storm, 
but pressure on margins and the inevitable 
slowdown is likely to affect everyone in the 
industry . Our focus will be on maintaining 
the highest standards of project execution 
and using our competitive position to 
convert our pipeline into wins.
Progress on organisational improvements
Strengthen and  
realign organisation
Enhanced focus on  
broadening customer base and 
strengthening brand
Productivity and
efficiency
enhancements
(Project Evolution)
Key initiatives
Completion of capital restructuring
Major client awards validate our quality and value mix
Complete organisation realignment
Enhanced marketing and branding
Yard workflow, layout improvements
Procurement synergies across projects and sites
Improved project scheduling
Process and technology improvements
