 06 Landkom International PLC Annual Report 2008
Welcome to the second Annual Report which presents the 
considerable progress the Group has made in 2008, including 
the gathering of the first scale harvest, the planting of 30,950 
hectares of winter crop and the further significant investment  
in and development of the Group’s operations in Ukraine.
Land remains the key resource of the business but as the 
dynamics of our markets changed during the year, as outlined 
in the Chairman’s statement, we needed to increase the 
proportion of the land bank being actively farmed. To that 
end, in the latter part of 2008, we ceased land lease 
acquisitions having met the year-end target of 1 15,000 
hectares. In January 2009, we took this a stage further by 
deciding to rationalise further the land bank by focussing on 
the most economic and fertile areas and disposing of some 
parts of the land bank that do not meet our strict revised 
criteria. Since January the group has reduced land under 
control to approximately 91,000 hectares, a successful first 
stage to the land bank restructuring. The Group will now 
embark on measured, controlled growth of planted area  
within the reducing land bank with a strong focus on  
delivering the profit potential of crop currently in the ground.
Operational review
Land bank
Ukraine is world famous for its formerly high agricultural 
output and, although through the 1980’s and 1990’s and early 
part of this decade investment was absent, the deep, rich and 
fertile “black earth” soil has remained. 
The west of Ukraine typically has high levels of precipitation 
which reduces the risk of winter kill over the cold winter 
months through regular snow cover, and provides excellent 
growing conditions in the summer through rainfall combined 
with high temperatures.
Business review
Chief Executive Officer’s 
review
Richards Spinks 
Chief Executive Officer
“The Group made 
considerable progress  
in 2008, including the 
gathering of the first scale 
harvest and the planting  
of 31,000 hectares  
of winter crop.” Annual Report 2008 Landkom International PLC 07
The Group acquires leasehold interests in the land it controls. 
The Group’s cultivated land lies predominantly in the west  
of Ukraine in close proximity to the EU border with Poland.  
In addition, the Group controls land with irrigation potential  
in Crimea.
As land is held through lease agreements, no value is 
attributed on the balance sheet to the value of the lease or  
the value of investment in the land through land preparation. 
Typical leases with individuals have a 15 year term and also 
include the right to buy in the event of regulations changing 
regarding the sale of freehold agricultural land. 
At the year end the Group controlled approximately 1 15,000 
hectares of land. Of this 1 15,000 hectares the average lease 
length was 9 years. The Group has invested in computer 
systems and staff for local authorities to ensure the speedy 
registration of leases. 
 
Regional farm bases are equally important as they provide 
secure areas to store and monitor crop inputs close to where 
the resources are required. During 2008, the Group acquired 
the freehold rights to 13 farm bases in regions where it leases 
land. The provision of these farm bases will provide cost 
savings in future years compared to 2008 when operations 
were run from our main Bily Kamin farm base.
Following the decision to rationalise the land bank, the land 
team has been reduced by around 25 per cent. The remaining 
staff are involved in the administration of land rental payments 
and maintaining local relationships. 
Strategy
Achievements
Establishment of major operations in Ukraine
The Group currently has over 30,000 hectares of crop in the 
ground. Equally importantly, the Group has developed the 
infrastructure to become a truly scale agriculture commodity 
producer. Preparation, in terms of storage and combines for the 
2009 harvest were in place by April 2009, months ahead of 
requirement and the previous year.
Restitution of derelict land back to agriculture use
A majority of the Group’s cropped areas were derelict prior to the 
Group’s investment. The Group has added to hectarages under 
cultivation within Ukrainian agriculture. All land is historically 
zoned for arable agriculture. Investment in the restitution of land  
is investment in future years of operations and the benefits will  
be seen over the coming years. 
Quality of training
The Group has committed considerable resource to ensure its  
staff are trained to the highest possible level on the Group’s 
advanced western equipment. Benefits, in terms of profitability,  
of this training will be realised over the coming years through 
increased efficiencies. The strong team of local Ukrainian farmers 
are working well with a small internationally experienced team  
of farmers and agronomists.
Harvest of 45,000 tonnes
Despite poor weather conditions, the team brought in a first harvest 
of over 45,000 tonnes of crop. The logistical effort was exemplary. 
Efficiencies and lessons learnt in the way the Group carried out the 
2008 harvest will lead to further improvements in future years.
Completion of own storage facility
Over $7 .5 million has already been invested into the Group’s 
storage facility. 20,000 tonnes of storage capacity will be 
operational by harvest together with advanced drying and cleaning 
facilities which have market leading intake rates. Equipment to 
double this storage and drying capacity has already been 
purchased and is on site awaiting installation.
Maintain relationships with authorities
Maintenance of relationships with authorities at all levels is key to 
the future success of the business. The two areas of most importance 
for relationships are with regard to land and tax. The Group still has 
a significant VAT receivable and will continue its efforts to have due 
funds returned.
Controlled growth
Although land planted this winter will not be substantially greater 
than that planted last year, the Group seeks to increase land under 
cultivation and to increase the proportion of land bank which 
generates cash flow. Combined with control of costs, this will 
maximise profitability and cash generation.
Continue to reduce costs to best in class
The Group reviews cost on a yield vs cost equation. Cost can be 
incurred but it must have a disproportionately positive impact on 
yield. Costs have been reduced significantly from the 2007/8 crop 
cycle but considerable further work is required to achieve best in 
class. This will come through cutting unnecessary expenditure and 
improving efficiency of land in use.
 
The future
In addition to its central operation in the west of Ukraine,  
the Group has also established a second, smaller operation  
in Crimea currently with around 5,000 hectares of land, 
3,500 hectares of which is currently planted predominantly 
with wheat. This farming operation is run on a low cost model 
independently from the farms in western Ukraine. Land was 
acquired as a working entity meaning the cost of restitution  
of derelict land has not been required. Tight financial controls 
are already in place. 
Our land in Crimea was formerly irrigated and has 
infrastructure, storage and drying facilities in place including  
a pumping station and piping. This farm is earmarked for 
modernisation of its irrigation infrastructure through the 
provision of new pivots which will allow the Group to supply 
water, fertiliser and chemicals directly onto the land through 
an irrigation system as the crop requires. The Group is 
collaborating with NYSE listed Lindsay Corporation  
on an initial 64 hectares irrigation trial in Crimea.
Crop sowing and maintenance
The Group utilises modern western agricultural equipment, 
quality seed, chemicals and fertilisers and latest agronomy 
techniques. In addition the farming operation employs  
330 local Ukrainian farmers carrying out different roles  
from agronomists, farm managers, vehicle drivers, mechanics  
and labourers. 
30,950 hectares of crop was planted in the autumn of 2008,  
a threefold increase over the same period in 2007 . The 
Group’s 15 agronomists are supplemented by advice from 
Scottish Agricultural College (“SAC”). SAC, with its permanent 
presence in Lviv, provides immediate consultancy advice  
on agronomy and best practice as and when required. 08 Landkom International PLC Annual Report 2008
In order to work the large fields, the Group has invested in  
a large fleet of western agricultural equipment including  
John Deere tractors, Claas Lexion combine harvesters and 
Horsch cultivator seeders. 
Multiple applications of fertiliser and chemical are applied  
on the fields throughout the year within specific windows to 
ensure optimal performance and return on investment. The 
data acquired during the 2008 harvest will enable the Group 
to continue to improve our crop management techniques. 
Weather is the greatest risk to the farming operation since 
weather can squeeze application windows and hinder 
harvesting. Weather risk lies principally around extended 
winter months, unseasonal frosts and heavy rain during the 
summer growing and harvesting. 
2008 Harvest
The west of Ukraine faced extremely demanding conditions 
during the summer of 2008. The heaviest rain in living 
memory fell and caused local disasters in many areas. Heavy 
rain delayed the harvest especially the wheat crop which 
suffered a significant degradation in quality along with much 
of the wheat grown in Ukraine. Additionally our operations 
had to manage the harvest of 4,000 hectares of spring wheat 
which did not prove to be a success. There are no plans to 
plant spring wheat again in the near future. Despite the 
weather, the Group did harvest 19,572 tonnes of high oil 
content OSR and 25,681 tonnes of wheat of different grades. 
 
Commodity prices have proven volatile in 2008. We signed 
an off-take agreement with Glencore for 9,000 tonnes of OSR, 
our principal value crop, at $540 per tonne (ex VAT). The 
Group exercised a 10% overallotment option on the OSR 
off-take contract with Glencore bringing the total to 9,900 
tonnes. This was an attractive price in the Ukrainian market  
in 2008. 
Business review
Chief Executive Officer’s 
review
continued
П ідсу мо к
30,950 га землі були засіяні восени 
2008 року, це в три рази більше, ніж за 
такий же період у 2007 році.
Капітальні витрати 2009 року були 
перенесені на 2008 рік, це означає, що 
у 2009 році непотрібно буде істотних 
капіталовкладень у бізнес.
Очікується, що власні складські 
приміщення Групи, місткістю 20,000 
тонн, будуть вчасно готові для 
цьогорічного врожаю.
Група надає велике значення передачі 
знань від незначної кількості фермерів 
з міжнародним досвідом до місцевих 
фермерів, що працюють на цій землі,  
в деяких випадках протягом десятиліть. Annual Report 2008 Landkom International PLC 09
Capital expenditure
2009 Capital Expenditure was brought forward into 2008 
owing to the shortage of machinery with which the Group  
was faced at the beginning of 2008, prior to the economic 
downturn and the fall in agricultural commodity prices.  
This means that 2008 year end cash is lower than expected 
but 2009 capital expenditure will be insignificant and 
concentrated mostly around the completion of our drying  
and storage facility in Krasne.
In addition to the Group’s investment in the agricultural fleet, 
the Group has also invested in a major service department.  
The Group has implemented strict servicing and maintenance 
schedules to minimise costly downtime during important 
application and harvest windows and also to prolong the  
life of equipment. Maintenance and spares are accounted  
for as costs and once used have no balance sheet value. 
Storage and logistics
There is a lack of modern drying and storage facilities in the 
west of Ukraine. Soviet style facilities tend to have poor intake 
rates for drying which severely limits their capacity to take  
the Group’s grain during the busy harvest period. Investment 
has only commenced with the increase of grain prices in  
recent times. 
The Group has developed strong relationships with silo owners 
in the regions. Contracts have been signed to cover the drying 
and storage of the entirety of this year’s crop. In addition, our 
own drying and storage facility by the rail side at Krasne is 
due to be completed before the harvest this summer. Krasne 
has a drying capacity of 50-100 tonnes per hour depending 
on moisture and storage of 20,000 tonnes. Equipment has 
been purchased and is on site which can double this drying 
and storage capacity.
The contracted and own storage capability is complemented 
by 5 flexible flat storage warehouses which can, in aggregate 
total hold up to 17 ,000 tonnes of grain and are used during 
the harvest as buffers in the event that silos cannot keep up 
with Landkom’s harvest rates. At other times, they are utilised 
for storage of crop inputs and vehicles.
The logistics effort to coordinate farming of 31,000 hectares 
over the Group’s operations is significant. A fleet of 220 
vehicles keeps the operations on the road. During peak times 
additional vehicles are to be contracted in.
Community development
The Group’s programme of regenerating land in Ukraine is 
providing employment and wealth creation for the local 
communities and regions where the Group leases land which 
is especially important during difficult economic conditions. 
We made significant contributions to social programmes in 
partnership with local people in some of Ukraine’s poorest 
villages and regions. In particular we help the very young and 
elderly in the communities where we lease land through 
donations and support to schools, orphanages and hospitals.
Management and employees
As an international business located in Ukraine, the Group 
places increasing importance in the sharing of knowledge 
between a small number of experienced expat farmers and 
local farmers who have been working the local land in some 
cases for decades. We believe that the matching of the wealth 
of knowledge between the two groups is the formula for 
profitable operations.
At the end of December the Group employed 740 people. 
Focus is on bringing the knowledge levels of employees to best 
in class and better utilising the human resource we currently 
have within the Group.
Richard Spinks
Chief Executive Officer
26 May 2009
