 LANDKOM International PLC
10
Report and Accounts 2009
BUSINESS REVIEW
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Welcome to the third Annual Report of 
Landkom, which describes how the business 
has changed during 2009. Since joining the 
Group in September 2009, and taking the 
Chief Executive Officer role in November 2009, 
my focus has been to carry out a full 
appraisal of the business and its potential. 
At the same time my new management 
team has examined all of our resources 
so that we can plan and best position 
the business in the shortest possible time.
With this process completed, a clear 
budget has been set and is being 
implemented with a view to increasing the 
land under cultivation on a profitable basis 
and reducing operational and overhead 
costs. Valuable assets of land, equipment 
and know-how exist within the Group and 
with changes to efficiencies, procedures, 
company structure and farming methods 
performance will improve and the business 
will transform to a leading, model 
agricultural business in Ukraine.
LAND
Land is the key asset within the business. 
In order to ensure that Landkom is taking 
advantage of fertile land across the whole 
of Ukraine, a new management structure 
is being set up which focuses central 
management in Kiev. 
The famous “black earth” soil which runs 
through the heart of Ukraine is core to 
our operations. Having remained derelict 
for much of the last 20 years, groups like 
Landkom are in the process of revitalising 
it to its former prominence. Productivity 
will increase year on year as soil structure 
improves and nutrients are replaced 
through sustainable applications of inputs 
and informed crop rotation. The benefits 
of this will soon become visible.
Given the current moratorium within Ukraine 
on the purchase of agricultural land, the 
Group acquires leasehold interests in the 
land it controls. As land is held through 
lease agreements, no value is attributed 
on the balance sheet to the value of the 
lease or the value of investment in the land 
through land preparation. Typical new 
leases with individuals have a 15-year term 
and have “right to buy” provisions in the 
event of a change of regulation regarding 
the sale of agricultural land. The Group 
also has leases with local authorities which 
assist to fill in gaps in land areas to ensure 
specific areas are economically viable. 
These leases typically are for a shorter term. 
At end of December 2009 Landkom had 
a land bank of 74,220 hectares of which 
20,272 hectares were awaiting registration. 
The immediate focus is to ensure all Group 
land is properly registered, the Group will 
also look opportunistically expanding and 
optimising the land bank in areas which will 
increase the efficiency of current operations. 
Under the new operating structure the land 
falls under: western region; central region; 
and southern region.
Each region has a regional Director who 
oversees all farming modules within his region.
Currently the Group has seven operating 
modules: five in the western region and one 
in each of the central and southern regions.
VITALIY SKOTSYK CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
SUMMARY OF 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
  Since taking the Chief Executive Officer 
role, focus has been to conduct a 
comprehensive review of the business 
and its potential.
  V aluable assets of land, equipment 
and knowhow exist within the Group and 
with changes to efficiencies, procedures, 
company structure and farming methods 
performance will improve and the 
business will transform to a leading, 
model agricultural business in Ukraine.
  A new management structure is being set 
up which focuses central management in 
Kiev. Over time this will spread operations 
more equally across Ukraine away from 
the current strong focus on the west. 11
Report and Accounts 2009 LANDKOM International PLC
ASSETS
In the first 12 months after initial funding 
in April 2007, the Group made significant 
investments in assets. Our goal is to integrate 
these assets into the current vision for the 
business and if necessary take the decision 
to swap assets in order to ensure operations 
are efficient in the medium term.
STORAGE
The construction of the first phase of 
storage was completed in 2009 and 
the facility has accepted Landkom 
grains for drying and storage for testing 
purposes. In order to become a certified 
grain handling silo which will permit third 
party grain handling revenues and allow 
the Group to sell to traders from the silo, 
a number of permissions need to be 
achieved and applications are in process. 
The Group’s medium term strategy is 
to have up to five silo facilities across the 
Group’s main areas of operations. This will 
decrease costs and permit more flexibility 
and control over the crop selling process.
The business has been set up to efficiently 
facilitate bolt on acquisitions in the future 
which will drive growth beyond the current 
land bank.
Until the medium-term strategy is executed, 
the Group will continue to use good 
relationships developed with local silo 
owners to ensure its harvest is carefully 
handled post harvest and pre sale.
FARM BASES
Regional farm bases are as important as 
storage since they provide secure areas 
to store and monitor crop inputs close to 
where they are required. Equally they are 
used to carry out repairs on agricultural 
equipment and to store water and diesel. 
The Group has 18 bases around the 
country in regions where it leases land. 
Under the new Company structure farming 
operations will be concentrated around 
seven main bases: five in the West, one in 
the Central region and one in the South. 
FARM EQUIPMENT
The Group is looking over time to realign 
the agricultural equipment base to fewer but 
larger machines which will lead to cost savings
in personnel, fuel and spares. In some cases 
this realignment will take place immediately 
to ensure correct equipment is on site 
to ensure the cultivation of new crops is 
possible. Over time the realignment will 
continue as part of a distinct equipment 
replacement programme. In order to 
ensure that operators take responsibility for 
the Group’s machinery under their control, 
machinery will be under the responsibility 
of a named operator based on one 
operational module and their incentive 
payments will be received based on 
the condition of their equipment. 
LOGISTICS
Distances from farm base to field and from 
field to silo can be considerable. Landkom 
has invested in a fleet of logistics vehicles 
centred around 25 Freightliner trucks 
complemented by outsourced transport 
companies during peak harvest times. 
Revised modular units will seek to ensure 
that logistics are kept as simple as possible 
with minimal distances driven. 
HARVEST 2009
Significant progress was made in the 2009 
harvest, although in terms of profitability 
this was outweighed by a poor crop sales 
process. In the time critical rapeseed harvest 
2.75 times more hectares were harvested 
in 2009 and the harvest was completed 
two weeks earlier than the previous year. 
All Landkom tonnages relating to harvest 
are clean and dry ready for sale weights 
as certified by silos.
Yields across Ukraine were down compared 
to 2008 owing to the particularly dry spring 
growing season. Landkom achieved a 
rapeseed yield of 2.7 tonnes per hectare 
(2008: 2.8 tonnes per hectare). The wheat 
harvest achieved an average yield across 
high input crops in the west and low input 
crops in central and southern areas of 
3.3 tonnes per hectares (2008: 2.6 tonnes 
per hectare). Western wheat achieved 
yields averaging 4.1 tonnes per hectare. 
Other crops harvested included smaller 
amounts of winter barley yielding 3.6 tonnes 
per hectare, oil radish (0.5 tonnes per hectare),
mustard and other forage crops. The Group 
targets to at least maintain yields for 2010. 
All Group yields are significantly above 
the Ukrainian average.
Future harvests will be spread over a longer 
period of time given the broader range 
of crops planted. This will provide higher 
utility for the Group’s harvest equipment. 
For crops whose harvest is time critical, 
such as rapeseed, additional harvesting 
capability is contracted in at market rates. 
Landkom currently owns 19 combines.
The business is now managed and run 
by experienced Ukrainians from within 
the local agricultural sector.
Local operations are now run exclusively by Ukrainians with strong track 
records of performance within the Ukrainian business environment. Financial 
control is maintained from an international ﬁnance team. The PLC Board 
is made up of Ukrainian and international members.
MANAGEMENT UPDATE
  As part of the new management team, 
appointments have been or will be made 
for heads of land, legal, finance, IT , 
security, machinery and agronomy.
  With the exclusive employment of 
Ukrainian managers, management 
costs continue to be reduced without 
a drop in expertise.
  Innovative employee incentivisation 
policies are being implemented to ensure 
that staff are empowered and feel 
responsible for corporate assets and 
corporate results.
  Although employee numbers continue 
to drop, the Group has ensured those 
employees remaining are skilled 
and motivated.
LOCAL MANAGEMENT 
TEAM REPLACED LANDKOM International PLC
12
Report and Accounts 2009
BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED
Chief Executive Officer’s review
PLANTING
WINTER PLANTING 2009
Planting operations commenced in 
August 2009 with 15,136 hectares of 
rapeseed being planted in the western 
regions. Additionally 4,005 hectares of 
winter wheat was planted by the end of 
September, also in the west. When added 
to 2,242 hectares of predominantly wheat 
and barley which was planted in Crimea, 
the Group had 21,383 hectares of crop in 
the ground over the winter. The crop survived 
the dry autumn conditions due to inherent 
moisture in the soil in the western region 
where winter sowing was focused.
Land for an additional 10,000 hectares 
had been prepared for spring planting by 
the end of December 2009. The remaining 
approximately 8,000 hectares of land 
preparation will be completed in 
February and March 2010. 
SPRING PLANTING 2010
Total spring planting will now be increased 
and amount to approximately 18,000 hectares
made up of maize (41%), spring wheat (20%), 
soya (17%), sunflower (17%) and others 
(5%). The new management team has 
extensive experience in these additional 
crops. With the addition of the spring crops, 
total harvest for 2010 will increase to 
approximately 39,500 hectares which 
amounts to an increase of approximately 
36% on 2009.
An increased capacity in spring planting 
will allow mitigation of any reduction in yield 
of winter crops due for example to winter 
kill or to reduced autumn planting. It also 
facilitates Landkom’s strategy to reduce 
risk by increasing the type of crops in the 
rotation, as well as aiding working capital 
management and increasing fixed asset 
utilisation through the extension of seeding 
and harvesting windows.
LIVESTOCK
As a legacy of the land acquisition 
programme, the Group currently has 
a small number of dairy, beef, sheep 
and pig farms. These business are non-core 
and are in the process of being restructured. 
Two of the livestock farms are breeding 
specialists and are registered in stud books. 
SECURITY
Given the widespread nature of operations 
and assets, strong independent security is 
vital to the integrity of the business. In addition 
to a small head office based security team, 
outsourced security contractors are used. 
Experience shows that outsourced security 
works best as it alleviates the opportunity for 
employees to become too close with security 
thereby reducing the risk of conflicts.
IT
As part of the process to incorporate 
all businesses under the leadership of a 
Kiev central office, new IT systems are being 
‘An increased capacity 
in spring planting will 
allow mitigation of any 
reduction in yield of 
winter crops, due for 
example, to winter kill 
or to reduced autumn 
planting. It also facilitates 
Landkom’s strategy to 
reduce risk by increasing 
the variety of crops in 
the rotation, as well as 
aiding working capital 
management and 
increasing fixed 
asset utilisation…’ 13
Report and Accounts 2009 LANDKOM International PLC
A MORE SOPHISTICATED APPROACH
TO PLANNING OPERATIONS
Moving to a multi-crop model, with winter 
and spring cropping equally split, de-risks 
the business model significantly as well 
as helping working capital financing, 
providing more operational flexibility 
and increasing the utilisation of the 
fixed asset base.
FARMING AND PLANTING UPDATE
  For the 2010 harvest, the Group will 
harvest rapeseed, wheat, maize, 
barley, soybean and sunflower.
  Increase in farming expertise and 
experience on the land will lead 
to increased use of precision based 
farming techniques.
  The farming team envisages considerable 
savings of operating costs with no yield 
reduction through better mix of Ukrainian 
and international techniques.
  2010 spring planting operations will take 
place during April and May 2010.
incorporated to improve regional reporting 
and to ensure that operational reporting 
and financial reporting are maintained 
on online bases and can be properly 
monitored at all times by key management.
EMPLOYEES
At the period end the Group had 
624 employees. Of the 624 employees 
89 were employed in administration, 
492 were in employed in crop raising 
operations and 43 were employed in 
livestock. The Group exclusively employs 
Ukrainians in its Ukrainian operations. 
Employees should be incentivised and 
responsible for their part of the business. 
Great care has been taken to give budgetary 
responsibility to all areas of the business 
and to ensure that all employees are 
incentivised to perform. Equity ownership 
through the share option programme is 
likely to be expanded through the business 
over the coming years.
VITALIY SKOTSYK
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
26 FEBRUARY 2010


