 6 Landkom International Plc Annual Report 2010
CHAIRMAN’S REPORT
STRATEGY OVERVIEW
The Group’s strategy remains to develop a substantial and
profitable enterprise using western farming techniques and
technologies in an underdeveloped part of Europe whilst aspiring
to the highest standards of corporate governance, with the
objective of becoming a profitable major agricultural commodity
producer for the global foodstuff and biofuel markets.
The fundamental drivers supporting the Group’s growth remain
unchanged. Long term demand for crops continues 
to increase largely as a result of global population growth and an
ever growing demand for protein food; while long term supplies of
food remain constrained through increased competition for land
with encroachment from cities and energy crops.
Ukrainian black earth is amongst the best in the world for arable
farming, permitting production costs to remain lower than in
neighbouring EU countries. The Group has a valuable land bank 
of approximately 74,000 hectares and it remains the Group’s goal
to plant as much of this land as possible and as profitably as
possible.
The global dynamics of the agriculture market place have
improved substantially over the last year. Crop prices have 
almost doubled and investor appetite has returned to Ukraine.
With improved efficiency of farming operations, costs have been
lowered to a level which will permit the Group to operate well,
even in a poor pricing environment and to deliver superior returns
in a strong pricing environment.
OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
Over the past 12 months Landkom has undergone an operational
turnaround. Changes have taken place to the structure of the
operations which are beginning to come through in improved
financial performance.
NEIL BALFOUR
THE STRATEGY
REMAINS TO BE 
A MAJOR SOFT
COMMODITY
PRODUCER FOR
THE FOOD AND
BIOFUEL MARKETS.
MANAGEMENT REPLACED 
THE BUSINESS IS NOW
MANAGED AND RUN BY
EXPERIENCED UKRAINIANS
FROM WITHIN THE LOCAL
AGRICULTURE SECTOR.
LOCAL OPERATIONS ARE RUN EXCLUSIVELY FROM
UKRAINE. FINANCIAL CONTROL IS MAINTAINED FROM AN
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE TEAM. THE PLC BOARD IS MADE
UP OF UKRAINIAN AND INTERNATIONAL MEMBERS. Landkom International Plc  Annual Report 2010 7
Adverse weather conditions in Ukraine were regularly in the news
during the course of the year. Severe droughts in Ukraine and
Russia were widely reported in the press. Less reported were the
heavy rains in the west of Ukraine during the harvest season which
significantly impacted the Group’s operations. Despite these
weather problems, harvested land grew by 19% to 34,506 ha. At
the same time operating costs per hectare, on a like for like basis,
fell by approximately 45%. During 2010, Landkom delivered its first
profitable crops, as a direct result of these operating cost savings.
Operations have continued successfully post the period end.
Winter planting was completed with 28,856 ha of winter crop
successfully planted. Of this, 12,862 was winter rape and 13,149
was winter wheat with the remainder being barley and rye.
The Group prepared an additional 18,800 ha of land for spring
201 1 planting. This will bring total planting to approximately 48,000 ha
for harvest in 2011. The 2011 spring crop planting covers a wider
range of crops to assist agronomic rotational requirements and
reduce crop risk. When added to the geographical diversification
between the three regions, weather and disease risk to the Group
is markedly reduced. Further expansion of the cropped land area
is likely to be focused on the central region further to balance the
Group’s geographical diversification.
FUNDRAISING
In November 2009, the Group raised $16.2 million to expand
cultivated hectarage and provide working capital. On 23 March
2011, the Group announced that it had signed a credit agreement
with Raifeissen Bank Aval for a $9 million facility which will be
drawn down to support general working capital needs and as
explained in the Chief Financial Officer’s Review, the Board
continues to manage cash flow carefully. Previously the Group
had no significant bank borrowings or debt facilities.
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Although the Group generated a small EBITDA loss of $4.4 million to
the year end 2010 as a result of late, weather related losses to the
crops in the western operational unit, the Board believes that, should
crop prices remain buoyant, positive EBITDA and net profit are
achievable for 201 1.
Some of the recent price rises in commodities have been locked
in by selling forward a portion of the expected rapeseed harvest.
Prices are attractive at $600 per tonne ex VAT on a CPT (“Carriage
Paid To”) basis. This price is approximately 75% higher than those
prices achieved in 2010 forward sales and 120% higher than
prices achieved in 2009 at the bottom of the market.
Costs on like-for-like crops, fell by an average of 45%. The Group
expects these cost reductions to be maintained in future periods
subject to material increases in the prices of fertiliser, fuel and
other inputs. The Group remains focussed on cash management,
cost control and gross margin maximisation.
BOARD AND MANAGEMENT
Following a period of significant change, the past 12 months 
have provided the Group with the opportunity to integrate the
new Ukrainian management team. Staff morale is high and
the difficult restructuring decisions have been taken swiftly 
and delivered upon. Vitaliy Skotsyk through his continued 
Non-Executive position with his former employer Amaco, has
delivered a close and important working relationship with the
Group’s principal trade supplier.
After the period end, Stephen Pickup CFO indicated his 
intention to step down from the Board and the company. 
John Mapplebeck (non-executive director) has agreed to
become CFO and relinquish his non-executive responsibilities.
Stephen will continue to support the business in the next months
as a corporate finance advisor to the Board.
OUTLOOK
Initial indications on the selling prices of the 2011 crops look
encouraging, backed up by the forward sales contracts on
rapeseed agreed during March 2011 at 75% higher levels than
2010 prices. As operating performance and cash generation
improve, the Group will have increased flexibility on the timing 
of crop sales.
The Board feels that the Group is now in its strongest position since
its IPO in 2007. Commodity prices are high and costs are under
control. The business remains highly operationally geared and is
well positioned to reap the financial benefits of a prolonged
period of positive pricing in the soft commodities market.
The Group continues to be presented with various opportunities 
for expansion but its immediate goal is to continue to plant as
much of the land bank as profitably possible and to deliver
positive EBITDA and net profits.
NEIL BALFOUR
CHAIRMAN
5 APRIL 2011
