 FOCUS HAS BEEN TO TURN
AROUND THE OPERATIONS
INTO AN EFFICIENTLY RUN
PROFESSIONAL FARMING
ENTERPRISE.
WE COMBINE BEST IN CLASS UKRAINIAN KNOWLEDGE
TOGETHER WITH THE HIGHEST STANDARDS OF
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.
8 Landkom International Plc Annual Report 2010
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
Welcome to the fourth Annual Report of Landkom, which outlines
the progress made during 2010. Since joining the Group in
September 2009 and taking the role of Chief Executive Officer in
November 2009, my focus has been to turn around the operations
into an efficiently run professional farming enterprise combining
best in class Ukrainian know-how and state of the art western
farming technology together with the highest standards of
corporate governance through the International Board. I brought
many trusted colleagues from my previous projects, which has not
only facilitated restructuring but also helped to introduce and
incorporate company values.
Valuable assets of land, equipment and know-how exist in the
Group and with the correct leadership they can be combined to
produce a model agricultural business in Ukraine. The Group’s goal
is not to just deliver the highest yield, but to achieve the optimal
trade-off between cost and yield in order to maximise profit. The
Group is on course to deliver this objective in 201 1 by achieving
yield improvements whilst maintaining comparable costs.
LAND
Land is the key asset within the business. The Group’s Ukrainian
central management has been set up in Kiev to ensure that land
on all geographical regions of Ukraine obtain visibility and
maintain importance in the Group’s future plans.
The famous “black earth” soil which runs through the heart of
Ukraine is core to our operations. Having remained derelict for
much of the last 20 years, groups like Landkom are in the process
of revitalising it to its former prominence. Productivity will increase
year on year as the soil structure improves and nutrients are
improved through sustainable applications of inputs and informed
crop rotation.
THIS REPORT
OUTLINES THE
PROGRESS MADE
IN THE GROUP
DURING 2010. 
VITALIY SKOTSYK Landkom International Plc Annual Report 2010 9
Although the land bank has remained constant at approximately
74,000 ha, the Group has undertaken a considerable series of land
swaps which has changed the actual land held within the land
bank. Land currently in the land bank has either been farmed by
the Group or is in economically viable clusters which will permit
efficient farming in the short term.
Land acquisition costs are rising in Ukraine as the economy
improves and investment returns to the agriculture sector on the
back of increasing commodity prices. The Group estimates that
the value of the unused land bank amounts to around $5 million.
There is no recorded balance sheet value to the land bank given
that it is held through leases and the land acquisition costs have
been expensed in the first years of operations.
The moratorium on agricultural freehold land sales remains in
place although the Ukrainian government is formulating plans to
remove the restrictions and permit landowners to sell or mortgage
their land holdings which would provide a significant stimulus to
the economy. The Group continues to monitor the situation
carefully. The Group’s leases all contain last right of refusal to
purchase in the event that the moratorium is lifted. Typical new
leases with individuals have a 15 year “right to buy” provision.
Currently the Group has seven operating modules ranging from
7,000 to 12,000 ha. Five are in the western region with one in each
of the south and central regions.
STORAGE AND LOGISTICS
During the course of 2010, the Group’s rail-side storage facility in Lviv
Oblast has been significantly upgraded and has become fully
functional with all necessary state approvals. Its dryer and storage
was extensively used in 2010 for Landkom’s own production which
helped reduce costs.
The site is fully licensed with the State Agrarian Fund and has been
used throughout the winter storing third party grain and delivering
extra revenue. Construction of railway line has been completed and
the silo is now able to unload grain directly to railway cars. An extra
buffer zone was constructed thereby increasing handling capacity
by 500 tonnes per day.
A gas pipeline is in the process of construction with plans to connect
the dryer to gas in the first half 201 1 which will reduce the drying costs
significantly compared to the diesel used in the past.
The Group still plans to construct the second phase of the silo, which
was purchased in 2007/8, when resources become available to
finance the project. The Group’s medium term strategy remains to
have up to five silo facilities across the Group’s main areas of
operations. This will decrease costs and permit more flexibility and
control over the crop selling process. Until the medium term strategy
is executed, the Group will continue, when needed, to use good
relationships developed with local silo owners to ensure the harvest is
carefully handled post-harvest and pre sale.
The modular system has also helped to reduce logistics costs by
minimising the distance travelled by machinery to get to the fields.
Deliveries are made locally which reduces time to field and 
reduces the risk of missing weather windows for making specific 
field applications.
FARM BASES
Regional farm bases provide secure areas to store and monitor
crop inputs close to where they are required. Additionally they are
used to carry out repairs on agricultural equipment and to store
water and fuel. The Group has 18 bases around the country in
regions where it leases land. There is an ongoing process of base
refurbishment to improve the efficiency of the service they provide
to the operations where they are located.
AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT
During 2010 a certain element of new machinery was purchased
to meet the requirements of the additional spring crops cultivated.
Given the resurgence of lease financing in Ukraine, the Group
intends to resume capital expenditure to deliver the optimal fleet
to improve efficiency and minimise crop risk. Particular areas of
investment will be combine harvesters and self-propelled sprayers.
These are both areas where we believe we lost considerable
quantities of crop yield through an insufficient quantity of the
appropriate equipment.
Maintenance costs savings were among the greatest savings in
2010 falling by 70% on a per ha basis. This excellent result was in
part due to the Group’s maintenance being managed by an
appropriately incentivised Ukrainian workforce compared to the
expatriate team used in previous periods. Further savings were
also made through improved spare parts purchasing methods
along with internal procedures which assign responsibility for
individual pieces of machinery to specific operators who are
incentivised based on the condition of their equipment. This
scheme has caused the drop in the instances of breakdowns
and neglect of machinery. During the winter period of 2010/11
all machinery has been serviced, diagnosed and repaired to
ensure it is fully operational for the year ahead.
FARMING OPERATIONS
The Group’s farming operations remain focussed on efficiency
and margin. The Group’s immediate target is to raise the
proportion of land bank planted from an expected 65% this 
year to as close to 100% as is efficiently possible, without
sacrificing margin or farming quality.
HARVEST 2010
The Group harvested five main crops across its three regions
during 2010. The western operations produced all five crops
including rapeseed and wheat, the central operations focussed
on maize and the southern operations cultivated wheat, soya,
mustard and other minority crops.
During 2010, Landkom delivered its first profitable crops. Winter
crop losses in 2009/10 were minimal, against a backdrop of
widespread winter kill across Ukraine. However, heavy rains
throughout the spring and summer in the west hindered the
Group’s ability to apply some key inputs which unavoidably
reduced yields. The Group’s 2011 capital expenditure program has
been set to ensure that this risk will be minimised by providing the
farming team with the correct equipment to permit increased
farming days, even in periods of poor weather. 10 Landkom International Plc  Annual Report 2010
In 2010, for the first time, the Group planted and harvested its 
land in the central region with maize. At the same time, the 
crop rotation strategy was changed to incorporate a wider 
range of spring crops to decrease weather and commodity 
price risk. Spring crops in 2010 made up 46% of the total crop. The
Group intends to maintain this approximate level of spring crops in
the future.
The 2010 harvest demonstrates the operational progress that has
been achieved. Harvested land increased by 19% whilst costs per
ha on comparable crops were reduced on average by 45%.
These cost savings are likely to be maintained into the future,
assuming constant prices for the core inputs of fertilizer, chemicals
and seed.
Landkom’s tonnages relating to harvest are clean and dry 
ready for sale weights as certified by silos. Yields relate to 
certified tonnages collected off harvested ha (excluding lost, 
non-harvested ha). Yields across Ukraine fell in 2010 due to the 
wet weather in the west of Ukraine and the drought in the
remainder of the country. Landkom’s yield results are shown in 
the table opposite.
The western operations were most affected by the heavy rainfall
during spring and summer 2010. In aggregate 14% of crops were
lost and not harvested. Management regards the 2010 crop losses
as exceptional and does not expect such a scale of losses to be
replicated in future periods. Achieved yields are 11% – 48% higher
than average Ukrainian yields and we would hope and expect
2011 yields to be in excess of these levels.
We believe that the rapeseed harvest was impacted by the
limited owned combine resources. Unusual weather conditions in
the rest of the country meant that usual contract combine service
companies were unable to deliver on contract to harvest
Landkom fields causing in field losses. The Group intends to invest
further in combines to reduce this risk in future periods. Landkom
currently owns 21 combines.
STORAGE IS STRATEGIC FOR
MEDIUM-TERM GROWTH
THE GROUP’S RAIL-SIDE
FACILITY IN LVIV HAS BEEN
SIGNIFICANTLY UPGRADED
AND NOW HAS DIRECT RAIL
ACCESS.
THE MEDIUM TERM STRATEGY IS STILL TO HAVE UP TO 
FIVE STORAGE AND DRYING FACILITIES ACROSS THE
GROUP’S OPERATIONS.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
CONTINUED Landkom International Plc  Annual Report 2010 11
WINTER PLANTING 2010
The autumn 2010 planting campaign was successfully completed
within the planting window. Winter crop planting was up 35% 
on 2009 to 28,856 ha. This crop was made up of 12,862 ha of
rapeseed, 13,149 ha of winter wheat, 292 ha of rye and 1,912 ha of
winter barley. The Group will report on how this crop has survived
the winter during April 2011. The winter crop has predominantly
been sown in the western and southern regions.
After the period end, a total of 18,800 ha were prepared for the
spring planting campaign. The Group expects final planting to
reach a total of approximately 48,000 ha which represents a rise 
of approximately 22% on 2009.
SPRING PLANTING 2011
Total spring planting is planned to reach approximately 19,000 ha.
This will be made up maize (43%), spring rapeseed (17%), spring
wheat (20%), soybean (5%) and sunflower (11%). As part of the
spring cropping, the Group plans to plant the entirety of its land
bank in the south which is among the Group’s most contiguous
and efficient farmland.
The 2011 spring crop planting covers a wide range of crops as an
intermediate step before the strategic four crop rotation system.
When added to the geographical diversification between the
three regions, the weather and disease risk to the Group is
markedly reduced. Further expansion of the cropped land area
is likely to be focused on the central region to further balance 
the Group’s geographical diversification.
LIVESTOCK
The Group’s livestock plans have been implemented during the
course of the year. Although currently not the focus of the Board,
livestock shows strong potential profitability when set up on a cost
efficient basis. With limited investment the Group’s livestock
operations have been restructured to improve efficiency and to at
least break even. The Group has two livestock operations in the
west and one in the south.
SALES
The selling process was completed efficiently with rapeseed
revenues required to finance the 2010 autumn planting season.
Other crops have been sold through the year, benefiting from
price rises over the past months. To date, all significant 2010
harvest inventory has now been sold.
Although cash flow requirements to cultivate efficiently the highest
possible proportion of existing land bank limited the Group’s ability
to retain crop in inventory for long periods, Landkom is seeking to
maximize sales proceeds within an approximate window of 6 - 8
months post-harvest.
IT
After the period end, the Group rolled out an online reporting
system developed to give senior management the highest level of
control across country-wide operations. Investment in this system is
expected to deliver further efficiency and assist and expedite
both operational and financial reporting in the future.
SECURITY
Given the widespread nature of operations and assets, strong
independent security is vital to the integrity of the business. In
addition to a small head office based security team, outsourced
contractors are used. Experience shows that outsourced security
alleviates the opportunity for employees to become too close to
security thereby reducing the risk of conflicts.
EMPLOYEES
At the period end, the Group had 717 employees. Of the 717
employees, 112 were employed in administration, 556 were
employed in arable operations and 49 were employed in
livestock. The Group’s employees are predominantly Ukrainian 
in its Ukrainian operations. Employees are incentivised and
responsible for their part of the business. Great care has been
taken to give budgetary responsibility to all areas of the business
and to ensure that all employees are incentivised to perform.
Equity ownership through the share option programme is likely 
to be expanded over the coming years.
VITALIY SKOTSYK
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
5 APRIL 2010
AVERAGE AVERAGE
HA HA HA TONNES AVERAGE SALES PRICE REVENUE
PLANTED LOST HARVESTED PRODUCED YIELD (HARVESTED) PER TONNE $ PER HA $
Western
Rapeseed 15,136 521 14,615 36,872 2.5 328 827
Winter Wheat 4,005 727 3,278 9,882 3.0 171 513
Spring Wheat 3,522 725 2,797 8,478 3.0 171 517
Maize 6,085 2,032 4,053 19,300 4.8 156 744
Sunflower 2,985 636 2,349 3,558 1.5 450 681
Soybean 2,772 822 1,950 3,146 1.6 346 558
Central
Maize 2,000 0 2,000 10,927 5.5 156 853
2010 HARVEST RESULT
