 Landround plc Report and Accounts 2004     3
Chairman’s Statement
The year ended 30 September 2004
finished well. Trading in the final quarter
was particularly strong and the results 
for the year as a whole were satisfactory
after the disappointing first half. I am
pleased to report that the momentum
achieved in the second half of last year
has been maintained into the current year.
Profit before the exceptional item,
amortisation of goodwill and taxation 
for the year was £2,112,000, a marginal
increase on the equivalent figure 
for the previous year of £2,070,000.
Earnings per share, adjusted to exclude
the exceptional item and goodwill
amortisation, were 31.0p (2003: 27.4p).
The exceptional item, which amounted 
to £454,000, fell entirely within the 
first half and arose from one large
voucher promotion, details of which 
are set out below. I consider it important
to note that we met in full the high
performance standards we set for all 
of our promotions: the promotion was
successful for the client, and all of its
customers who sought to redeem their
vouchers in exchange for travel, were
promptly provided with their travel
choices. What is more, the promotion
overall was profitable for Landround,
albeit at a much reduced margin.
Dividend
The cut in the interim dividend was a
proper response to our first half results.
An increase in the final dividend is an
equally proper response to an improved
second-half performance.
The Directors will, therefore, 
be recommending a final dividend 
of 8.0p per share (2003: 7.0p) at the 
Annual General Meeting. This, together
with the interim dividend of 2.5p (2003:
3.5p), gives a maintained total dividend
for the year of 10.5p (2003: 10.5p).
The dividend will be paid on 28 February
2005 to shareholders on the register on 
7 January 2005.
Management and Staff
The executive team and all Landround’s
staff knew that we had much to 
achieve in the second half. They rose 
to the challenge quite magnificently 
and deserve thanks and praise.
Michael Crompton stood down as
Chairman on 1 April 2004. Full tribute
was paid to him at the time but this
Report and Accounts seems the proper
place finally to thank him for all that 
he did for Landround and to wish him
and his family well. 
Tony Short was appointed Commercial
Director of Landround on 1 April 2004.
His appointment completes the executive
management team at Board level for the
time being. He joined Landround in
November 2003 after a successful career
in sales and general management with
Shell UK, Ciba-Geigy and Dow Group. 
Shareholder Travel Privileges
Our package of Shareholder Travel
Privileges continues to be popular 
with our private shareholders and 
the intention is to extend the current
package. Further details will be
announced at our Annual General
Meeting on 23 February 2005.
Outlook for the Current Year
The year to 30 September 2004 finished
on a positive note and, as I said in my
opening comments, the momentum 
has continued into the current year. 
Sales prospects for Buy and Fly! are
encouraging and, for the first time, we
go into a new year with forward sales
on the books. We are also encouraged
by the prospect of extending our
international market. 
We are looking for greater returns 
from our voucher business as well as
from Buy and Fly! and we expect
another positive contribution from 
Travel Offers Limited.
I am confident of Landround’s prospects
and believe that the Group will resume
its pattern of growth.
Peter Carter
Chairman, 7 December 2004
“
I am confident of Landround’s prospects 
and believe that the Group will resume 
its pattern of growth
”
