 Landround plc Report and Accounts 2004     5
Chief Executive’s Statement
The year ended 30 September 2004 
was a year of ups and downs for
Landround but I consider that, in time, 
it will be seen as something 
of a watershed for the Company.
Landround Marketing
Landround Marketing once again had a
record year in terms of sales, finishing
marginally ahead of last year’s figures.
Significantly, for the first time Buy and
Fly! gross sales exceeded those of
Landround’s traditional voucher products
and it is clear that Buy and Fly! will see
a substantially faster growth rate than
the original Landround proposition.
Buy and Fly! has moved from strength to
strength since the announcement in
January 2004 of the signing of our first
major consumer facing contract with
Morgan Stanley.  The Morgan Stanley Buy
and Fly! MasterCard was launched on
schedule at the end of May 2004 and has
so far exceeded all of Morgan Stanley’s
own expectations.  Importantly, the launch
of the card raised consumer awareness of
the product, which has encouraged yet
more clients to sign up to Buy and Fly! 
We were pleased in the second half of
the year to sign Shop Direct Group to
Buy and Fly! on a trial basis, with a
substantial long term arrangement
currently under discussion.  Scottish
Courage has recommitted to Buy and Fly!
with a further extension of its contract
and intends also to use Buy and Fly!
with one of its four key retail brands. 
In the Republic of Ireland progress 
has been made both in the business 
to business and the consumer market
and we expect the launch of a 
major consumer-facing promotion in 
the first quarter of 2005.
Buy and Fly! continues to appeal to 
the business to business market and 
we have already signed a number of
companies to the Passport to Profit
independent retailers scheme whereby
brand manufacturers will use Buy and
Fly! points to incentivise retailers in the
sales of their particular products.  The
scheme will launch early in 2005.
Vouchers continue to make a significant
contribution to the sales and profits of
Landround Marketing, both in the 
United Kingdom and the Republic of
Ireland.  Following some excellent
promotions with clients such as Virgin
Megastores, Timberland and PC World in
the first half, we were pleased to work
on promotions with Hewlett-Packard,
Liverpool Football Club, Holiday Autos
and Samsung (amongst others in the
UK) and Renault, Coca-Cola and Irish
Sugar in the Republic of Ireland during
the second half.  Additionally, we
continue to blaze new trails in the
newspaper field with further promotions
for Associated Newspapers.
New products have been added to the
portfolio throughout the year, as we have
begun working with partners such as
Pontins and RCI, as well as developing
existing voucher themes.
The Buy and Fly! redemptions range 
has broadened with the signing of 
Iberia Airlines, our eighteenth airline
partner, during the course of the year
and the introduction of some leisure
opportunities alongside the pure travel
redemption options previously offered.
Development continues not only 
through our own efforts but also the
input of our Buy and Fly! clients.
Landround Marketing’s high margins and
rapid cash generation resulted in the
disclosure of a moderate debtors’
balance and substantial cash balances in
the Landround Group’s annual accounts.
As we move towards a greater
contribution to sales and profits from 
Buy and Fly!, the shape of the Group’s
balance sheet will change. Debtors will
increase and cash flow will slow in the
short to medium term. This is an entirely
expected consequence of Landround’s
investment in Buy and Fly! Should any
external funding be required for working
capital, we are confident that bank
finance will be readily forthcoming. 
Landround Travel
The exceptional item of £454,000 arose
from one large voucher promotion, which
“
We have become a substantial route to market for our
travel partners who continue to welcome the trade we
give them in what is a highly competitive market.
Travel remains aspirational and thus a highly effective
tool of sales promotion 
” Landround plc
ended on 30 April 2004. In accordance with our usual
accounting policy, the sale by Landround Marketing was booked
in September 2003 when the client was invoiced but the
unexpected costs fell into the first half of the year just ended.
There were unusual features to this promotion, including most
notably a short redemption period. Management made certain
assumptions as to the pattern of redemption, but for a 
number of reasons these were incorrect and significant costs
occurred.  It is important to stress that the promotion was
profitable overall, the client concerned has since placed further
business, and no further promotions with a short redemption
period will be considered.
In addition to the exceptional item, Landround Travel, which in
the past was expected to break even and in some years provided
a small but welcome contribution to Group profits, has made a
modest loss. 
It has become clear to us that the travel market is changing
and our business – travel promotions – must anticipate and
respond to those changes. There are two areas to consider: 
•
the travel industry is ever more competitive and all travel
activity is subjected to an ever increasing degree of pricing
scrutiny; and
•
the travelling public is becoming more sophisticated. For
example, the decline of the package holiday in favour of
bespoke holidays has been well documented. The availability
of low-cost flights, internet booking and a plethora of mini-
breaks have also influenced travellers’ options. 
However, these trends do not in any way diminish the
attraction of travel promotions. We have become a substantial
route to market for our travel partners who continue to
welcome the trade we give them in what is a highly
competitive market.  Travel remains aspirational and thus a
highly effective tool of sales promotion.  
We continue to ensure that our portfolio of promotions remains
attractive and cost-effective to our clients, while also
maintaining a balance between innovation and familiarity, and
we continue to work closely with our travel partners in order to
ensure that our relationships and arrangements with them
serve their needs as well as ours.
However, if we are to continue to provide quality promotions
and a high level of service, there will be an attendant 
increase in our costs and some erosion of margins. We have
provided for the cost of redemption on Buy and Fly! since its
inception. Since 1 April 2004, we have extended this policy,
albeit at a lesser level, for the redemption cost of all other
flight promotions.
We continue to monitor the performance of all our promotions
on a month by month basis, and where necessary will adjust
the redemption methodology and/or provisioning for the
promotions should it become necessary.
We are proud of the levels of customer service which we
provide to our clients and customers, both in the redemption 
of voucher products and the growing Buy and Fly! collectors’
base.  Once again, we have been awarded ABTA’s Gold Award,
which validates these service levels.
Travel Offers Limited
Travel Offers’ turnover and profits were both down on the
previous year but, that said, the company continues to 
make a welcome contribution to the Group’s cashflow and profit.  
We do not expect substantial growth in the business, 
but it remains a valuable part of the Group with a popular
consumer proposition.
David Lyne
Chief Executive, 7 December 2004
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
