 I am pleased to be able to report a further year of strong growth for UBC 
Media Group, delivering on our past commitment to shareholders and 
putting in place a robust foundation for the next stage in the development 
of your company.
Digital radio is now a success story, with the UK leading the world. Key skills for 
exploiting the digital marketplace are the supply of content, control of spectrum 
and software development. UBC is well placed in each of these areas, with skills 
and experience, as is evident from a number of developments during the last 
year, both in the UK and overseas.
The high growth digital radio environment that we anticipated and around which 
we have built UBC is now upon us. DAB is proving to be one of the fastest ever 
new technologies to reach mass market status and the industry’s forecasts 
for take-up this year are currently being revised upwards. UBC has sought to 
create the right business mix for an environment that we believe will operate on 
different economic models from that of the traditional analogue radio world.
The creation of strong brands is of growing importance in what is an increasingly 
competitive marketplace. In this respect, our partnership with Channel 4 
Television in our national digital radio station, Oneword Radio, is of particular 
signiﬁcance, and also demonstrates the increasing value of ownership of digital 
radio licences.
As we predicted, networking and the ability to generate revenues by providing 
programming to stations owned by others is becoming a key part of the digital 
radio economy. It is in this area that we have seen particularly strong growth in 
the past year. Our syndicated programmes now reach 34% of the UK population 
every day and revenues grew 44.1% in the year. The acquisition of the leading 
regional independent production company, Smooth Operations, has made an 
important contribution to a 34.4% growth in revenues from commissioned 
programming. We continue to be one of the leading suppliers of programmes 
to the BBC and the value of this position is ampliﬁed by the BBC’s intention to 
double the programming it commissions from independent production companies. 
Whilst we welcome a step that will beneﬁt our production businesses, it will 
still leave radio outsourcing signiﬁcantly behind that of television. We see no 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
3
justiﬁcation for this, and are lobbying government as part of the current Charter 
Review process to encourage greater movement from the BBC.
Digital radio offers the opportunity to bring real vision to the radio industry. UBC 
Media Group’s strategy has been to anticipate how digital radio will develop, 
and position the Company to beneﬁt from new opportunities as they emerge. 
We believe the ability to transmit data will be one of the key drivers of the 
next stage in the development of DAB digital radio. We already have a 40% UK 
market share for the provision of software to drive the existing text services that 
accompany digital radio broadcasts. This, however, is only the beginning: devices 
are now being launched which allow full Electronic Programme Guides (EPG) and 
facilitate sophisticated services using digital radio’s data capacity. 
UBC has the only commercially available EPG software in the UK and has already 
licensed this to major UK broadcasters, including GCap Media and the recently 
announced BT Livetime datacasting venture. A major part of our investment in 
2006 will focus on exploring ways to exploit the data capacity that is owned by 
UBC and, in particular, on the launch of innovative services that allow music to  
be downloaded over digital radio. We expect to launch such a service in the 
next calendar year.
UBC’s aim continues to be to grow the business both organically and by 
acquisition. We remain committed to investing in the development of 
our portfolio of digital assets and to maintaining our position at the 
forefront of innovation and technical achievement. Since the start of 
the new ﬁnancial year, as has been widely reported elsewhere, the 
radio advertising market has shown signs of softening. However, 
we continue to see advertising revenues higher than at this 
time last year. The Group continues to perform in line with 
expectations and we believe the prospects for the year 
ahead are positive. 
Simon Cole 
Chief Executive
Simon Cole Chief Executive
