 2
UBC MEDIA GROUP PLC
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
John Hodson Chairman
This is the ﬁrst opportunity I have had to write to the shareholders of 
UBC Media Group since my appointment as Chairman of the Company in 
February 2005.
As the new Chairman I think it is helpful to reiterate the strategy that has 
guided the Group’s development since its ﬂotation in July 2000. This has been 
to maximise the returns from UBC’s traditional businesses as a means to ﬁnance 
the Group’s digital expansion, including the signiﬁcant programme of investment 
in its portfolio of digital assets.
In keeping with UBC’s strategy, I am delighted to report another year of strong 
turnover growth for the Group. Turnover grew by 20% to £15.96 million (2004: 
£13.29 million). Operating Proﬁts for the Group increased to £1,075,000 (2004: 
£405,000) before goodwill of £704,000 and digital licences of £1.50 million. 
The growth in the past year reﬂects a combination of both organic growth and 
acquisitions, with positive contributions from all the Group’s main divisions.  
Full details of the performance of each of the Group’s divisions are contained in 
the Financial Review.
I would like to take this opportunity to extend the thanks of the board to my 
predecessor, Michael Peacock, who performed the role of chairman of UBC with 
great skill since the Company was founded in 1989. Michael’s contribution to the 
business has been enormous, bringing to UBC all the experience gained from a 
long and distinguished career in the media industry. On behalf of my colleagues 
I would like to express my appreciation to Michael for all he has done to guide 
UBC to where it is today and to wish him a long and well deserved retirement.
Following his decision to stand down as a director, I would also like to thank 
Keith Harris on behalf of the rest of the Board for his long standing contribution 
to the Company, and most recently for his services as a director of UBC.
The commercial and creative successes of the past year could not have been 
achieved without the enthusiasm and commitment of the whole team at UBC. 
The Company has a highly talented workforce and it is their consistent and 
focused efforts that have enabled us to deliver a further year of strong growth.
UBC is founded on a culture of innovation and creativity and the strong 
performance of the past year is evidence of the robust and complementary mix of 
businesses within the Group. The Company is led by an established management 
team that is young and energetic, and with ambitions to grow the business 
substantially over the next few years. I believe that with a continuing favourable 
environment the prospects for the Company in the current year are good.
 
John Hodson 
Chairman
