 Overview
The improvement in trading performance,
together with a targeted capital investment
programme and tightly managed working
capital, has produced another significant
reduction in the Group’s net debt levels,
further strengthening our capital structure
and underpinning our ability to invest in the
Group’s longer term development.
The ongoing implementation of our
business plan has made good progress, and
is a key factor in the improvement in the
overall trading performance of the Group.
In particular, our management teams have
been strengthened; expected operational
efficiency improvements are being delivered;
our German business is being re-aligned; and
the deployment of our capital base is being
focused on those markets that offer greater
potential returns. It is these actions to
reshape the Group, driving greater efficiency
and the ability to leverage our strong market
positions, that the Board believes will enable
Lavendon to continue to drive increased
financial returns and generate substantial
shareholder value in the coming years.
In October 2011, we welcomed Don Kenny
as the Group’s new Chief Executive Officer
and he is providing further impetus in
leading the Group through this important
next stage of its development.
Return on capital employed
The Group’s return on capital employed
(ROCE), the key performance metric for the
Group, improved across the year, reaching
9.0% at the year-end, a significant increase
over the return of 6.6% at the previous year-
end. This calculation has been based on the
Group’s operating profits before exceptional
items for 2011 and the average of the
opening and closing capital employed for
the year of £306.1 million (2010: £338.4
million). Further improvements are targeted
in the coming 12 months as we look to
move the Group’s ROCE above our pre-tax
weighted average cost of capital of 11%
across the business cycle.
Operational and
capital efficiency programmes
The expected operational efficiency gains
are being delivered in line with our three-year
plan, supported by strengthened
management and changes, where necessary,
to our operating procedures and processes.
In 2011, we realised overall efficiency gains
in the order of £2.0 million, principally from
pricing improvements in the UK and
transportation efficiencies in Germany and
France. These benefits will continue to
accumulate throughout the coming year and
into 2013, augmented by actions being taken
to improve our procurement and planned
maintenance processes that have a longer
lead time to deliver significant benefits.
These programmes are a core focus of the
Board and we remain confident that our
overall annualised profit improvement target
of £5.0 million will be progressively achieved
through to the end of 2013.
The Group’s Spanish operation is now closed
and the rental fleet successfully redeployed
to the Group’s other markets, principally into
Belgium and France, with the remainder in
the process of being sold. Through this
redeployment of capital, the ability to
increase capital returns to an acceptable
level is improved, as the increase in fleet
scale in the receiving countries should
generate attractive incremental margins.
In Germany, actions are being taken to
address its sub-optimal returns. A process
began in 2011 to reduce its capital base
through the disposal of approximately 600
rental machines thereby removing a future
capital replacement requirement of around
£18 million from the business. This
adjustment to the fleet, when combined with
operational efficiency gains that will continue
to accrue in the coming year, should enable
the German business to deliver a substantial
improvement in its relative contribution to
the Group’s financial performance. We believe
that achieving a ‘step-change’ in the financial
returns made on the capital deployed in
Germany is a key factor in returning the
Group’s ROCE to above its cost of capital,
and this remains a major area of focus for
management in 2012.
“The Group’s financial performance in 2011 showed a
marked improvement over the previous year, in line
with the Board’s expectations, principally driven by
improved pricing together with rigorous operational
management and control of capital. Trading conditions
during the year were relatively stable across the Group’s
markets, although the economic outlook became
increasingly uncertain as the year progressed.”
Chairman’s statement
John Standen
Chairman
2          Lavendon Group plc 2011 Financial results
The Group’s total revenues for the year
(excluding revenues from our discontinued
Spanish business) increased by 4% to £225.4
million (2010: £217.5 million), reflecting an
8% increase in rental revenues to £216.9
million (2010: £200.7 million) partly offset by
the anticipated decline in revenues from the
disposal of a smaller number of ex-rental
fleet machines.
Underlying operating profits for the year
increased by 21% to £30.0 million (2010:
£24.7 million), with margins improving to
13.3% (2010: 11.4%) as a result of the
growth in revenues and the operational
efficiency gains delivered during the year.
With underlying net interest costs reducing
to £8.1 million (2010: £11.4 million),
reflecting the decline in the Group’s net debt
levels over the past two years, underlying
profit before tax increased 65% to £21.9
million (2010: £13.3 million). This increase in
profitability combined with an effective
underlying tax rate of 25% (2010: 25%),
generated an underlying profit after tax of
£16.5 million (2010: £10.0 million) and a 65%
increase in underlying earnings per share to
10.03 pence (2010: 6.07 pence).
During the year, the Group incurred a total
post tax exceptional charge of £0.4 million
(2010: nil) on continuing operations.
This overall charge is the net effect of
exceptional operating costs of £4.8 million
(with an associated tax credit of £0.9 million)
relating to restructuring charges incurred
during the year, and following agreement
with the tax authorities on the treatment of
intra-group financing arrangements from
prior years, exceptional interest payable
and tax credits of £1.4 million and
£4.9 million respectively.
Amortisation charges in the year of £2.3
million  (2010: £2.3 million) include the
amortisation of the intangible assets
acquired on completion of the acquisition of
Blue Sky Access Limited in October 2011.
After the exceptional and amortisation
charges, the Group’s operating profit was
£22.9 million (2010: £22.4 million). The
Group’s profit before tax was £14.2 million
(2010: £10.9 million) and the Group’s profit
after tax was £15.2 million (2010: £8.3
million), with a resulting earnings per share
of 9.22 pence (2010: 5.05 pence).
As previously announced, the Group’s
Spanish operation was closed towards the
end of 2011, and its results for the year have
been reported as a ‘discontinued business’.
The loss for the year was £0.8 million (2010:
loss of £0.2 million), and an exceptional
charge of £5.0 million was incurred in closing
the business and transferring its rental fleet.
There would be no material difference to
the Group’s financial results for 2011 if
consistent exchange rates with 2010 were
used to convert the results of the Group’s
international operations.
Cash flow generation
Underlying earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) for
the year increased by 5% to £71.7 million
(2010: £68.2 million), with margins
improving to 31.8% (2010: 31.4%). Cash
generated from continuing and discontinued
operations, including the sale and purchase
of rental fleet assets and after movements
in working capital, was £56.9 million (2010:
£67.9 million). Net cash generated from
continuing and discontinued operations,
after payment of interest and tax was
£41.2 million (2010: £51.8 million).
Investment
A total of £16.9 million (2010: £14.7 million)
was selectively invested in the Group’s rental
fleet and operational infrastructure, partly
funded by the disposal of surplus and retired
assets that generated £6.2 million in cash
(2010: £14.0 million). This activity, after
reflecting movements in amounts owing to
equipment suppliers at the beginning and
end of the year, resulted in a net cash
outflow relating to capital expenditure of
£8.8 million (2010: £0.9 million). The Group
has made progress in optimising its rental
fleet mix, by removing under utilised
machines and replacing them with a smaller
number of higher yielding assets during the
year. This has facilitated a net reduction in
the Group’s fleet of around 1,000 machines
across the year to a total fleet of 20,000 at
the year end.
In October 2011, the Group acquired Blue
Sky Access Limited (“Blue Sky”) for a total
consideration of £7.1 million net of cash
acquired. Blue Sky designs and engineers
products to improve efficiency and safety
in the use of powered access equipment.
This acquisition is a further step in
delivering our strategy of creating key
points of differentiation between the
Group and our competitors in the
marketplace, and underpins our ability to
provide innovative solutions that increase
productivity and the safety of a customer’s
workforce. Of the total consideration,
£3.1 million (net of cash received) was paid
on completion and a further £2.5 million
will become payable over the next two
years. In addition to the total consideration,
further payments of up to £1.5 million
could become payable over the next four
years dependent on revenue generation.
Reduction in net debt
The strength of the Group’s operating cash
flows and modest levels of investment,
together with a small favourable foreign
exchange movement of £1.6 million on
Euro-denominated borrowings, enabled the
Group to reduce its net debt levels during
the year by £33.7 million to £106.6 million
(2010: £140.3 million). The corresponding
debt to equity ratio was 58% (2010: 78%),
with an improved net debt to pre-
exceptional EBITDA ratio of 1.49 times
(2010: 2.00 times). Whilst we plan to
increase our fleet investment in 2012, we
still expect to make a further reduction in
fleet size in the year as well as making further
progress in reducing the Group’s net debt
level. These plans will ensure our rental fleet
mix continues to improve and remains highly
competitive, but will also move the Group
towards a level of net debt that will be
maintained for the foreseeable future until
market conditions or investment
opportunities warrant the deployment of
additional capital.
Dividend
Following the Group’s improved financial
performance, and reflecting the Board’s
confidence in the strength of the Group’s
cash flows, a final dividend of 1.38 pence
per share is proposed, doubling the final
dividend for 2010 and making a total
dividend for the year of 1.75 pence (2010:
1.00 pence). The final dividend, if approved,
will be paid on 1 May 2012 to shareholders
on the register at the close of business of
9 March 2012.
The increase in dividend for the year reflects
the Board’s recognition that dividend
distributions are an important element in
delivering shareholder value. This is an area
that the Board will continue to keep under
review, to ensure that future distributions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lavendon Group plc 2011     3 adequately reflect the Group’s earnings and
cash flows, as well as its investment needs
and funding requirements as we progress
through the cycle.
Refinancing
With effect from 29 February 2012, the
Group has agreed terms to replace its
existing bank facilities with new debt
facilities of £150 million, comprising a
£100 million revolving bank facility expiring
in July 2016 and a €60 million US private
placement expiring in July 2019. These new
facilities provide the Group with a robust
medium to long-term diversified financing
package, with significant liquidity, that will
support the development of the Group in
the coming years. The costs associated with
the completion of this refinancing,
approximately £2.9 million or 2% of the
new facilities, will be amortised over the
term of the facilities.
Board changes
On 30 June 2011, Kevin Appleton stepped
down as Chief Executive Officer after nine
years with the Group. I would like to offer
the sincere thanks of the Board to Kevin for
all that he achieved in increasing the scale
and quality of the business during that time.
With effect from 1 October 2011, we
welcomed Don Kenny to the Board as the
Group’s new Chief Executive Officer. Don
has a wealth of experience of improving
operating performance and growing
businesses successfully both in the UK and
internationally, and is ideally placed to lead
the Group through the next phase of its
development.
As previously announced, Tim Ross, who had
been a Non-Executive Director of the Group
since 2005, retired from the Board at the
Company’s Annual General Meeting on 20
April 2011. I would like to thank Tim for his
contribution to the Board.
Summary and outlook
We have made good progress in 2011 with
revenues, margins and returns on capital
employed improving in all our European
businesses. Revenues from our Middle East
operation returned to growth during the
year and, in the final quarter, started to
deliver year on year growth in profits on a
monthly basis.
Our net debt levels have again reduced
significantly during the year, leaving the
Group with a comfortable level of
borrowings and a healthy capital structure
that benefits from enhanced liquidity
following the refinancing of the Group with
new medium to long-term debt facilities.
Our future capital investment plans will be
funded from annual cash flows, and will
ensure our rental fleet remains highly
competitive while also enabling the Group
to continue to generate free cash.
As we move into 2012, we believe that the
progress we have made over the last twelve
months, together with our strong market
positions and geographic spread of
operations, provides a firm foundation from
which our return on capital employed can be
further enhanced. In particular, we recognise
that further improvement in the
performance of our German business will be
central to the Group moving towards the
inflexion point, whereby our overall returns
on capital will surpass our weighted average
cost of capital which remains the Group’s
key objective.
Trading since the year end has been in line
with the Board’s expectations, and whilst
mindful of the continuing uncertain
economic climate, the Board remains
confident of delivering another year of
progress in 2012 and substantial shareholder
value in the medium term.
Note: Underlying operating profits, profit before and after
tax are stated before amortisation charges, exceptional
items, movements in the fair value of financial derivatives
and the Group’s discontinued Spanish operation.
John Standen
Non-Executive Chairman
29 February 2012
Chairman’s statement
continued
4          Lavendon Group plc 2011
