 Strategy and business objectives
We have seen a steady improvement in the
Group’s financial performance during 2011,
despite the continuation of an uncertain
economic climate in our main European
markets. This improvement, driven by
operational efficiency gains and leveraging
strong market positions, has enabled good
progress to be made towards our key
strategic objective of delivering superior
returns on capital employed (ROCE). We
believe that by achieving superior returns;
• substantial shareholder value will be created;
• additional growth capital will be
attracted when required; and
• the Group’s investment case will be
fundamentally differentiated against
available alternatives.
Our strategy will be delivered through
deploying capital into markets that offer
attractive margins and/or growth potential,
and ensuring our businesses operate with
sufficient scale and efficiency that strong
market positions are secured to support the
future growth of the Group.
The Board monitors progress against its
strategic goals by reference to key
performance indicators. The key
performance indicators for the period 2007
to 2011 are shown in the table below:
                                               2007     2008      2009      2010    2011
Revenue
1
(£m)             186.5  245.8   217.5  217.5 225.4
Underlying EBITDA
margin
2
(%)                     32.9    37.1     35.6     31.4    31.8
Underlying operating
profit margin
3
(%)          15.7    18.2     14.2     11.4    13.3
Net debt to underlying
EBITDA ratio
4
                 2.92    3.13     2.26     2.00    1.49
Return on capital
employed
5
(%)               11.0    10.8       6.8       6.6       9.0
Employee
turnover
6
(%)                     20       26        31        15    18.0
Definitions
1 Revenue = revenue from continuing businesses as per the Group
income statement. Revenues shown in the table have been
stated in accordance with IAS 16 (amendment) ‘Property, plant
and equipment’. This amendment requires proceeds derived
from the sale of rental assets to be included in revenue.
2 EBITDA margin = underlying EBITDA as a percentage of
revenue. Underlying EBITDA is defined as earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, exceptional items and
movements in the fair value of financial derivatives from
continuing businesses, where all figures are as per the Group
financial statements.
3 Underlying operating profit margin = underlying operating
profit as a percentage of revenue. Underlying operating profit
is defined as operating profit before amortisation charges,
exceptional items and movements in the fair value of financial
derivatives from continuing operations, where all figures are as
per the Group income statement.
4 Debt to underlying EBITDA ratio = the Group’s total net debt
divided by EBITDA. Net debt is as per the Group financial
statements, and EBITDA is as defined in definition 2 above plus
EBITDA from discontinued businesses.
5 Return on capital employed = operating profit from continuing
operations before exceptional items as a percentage of capital
employed. Operating profit before exceptional items as per the
Group income statement. Capital employed being the aggregate
of the average of the Group’s opening and closing net assets and
net debt, as per the Group financial statements.
6Employee turnover = number of employees leaving as a
percentage of total workforce on an annualised basis. All staff
departures are included within the calculation, including
restructures and redundancies. (Source: internal data).
The table demonstrates the improvement
in the Group’s financial performance in
2011, with revenues returning to year on
year growth and underlying EBITDA and
operating margins both increasing. This
enhanced trading performance produced
healthy operating cash flows, which after
settlement of interest, tax and investment
commitments, delivered a £33.7 million
reduction in the Group’s net debt levels.
The debt to underlying EBITDA ratio has
reduced to 1.49 times from 2.00 times at
the end of 2010, another important
indicator of the improving financial
strength of the Group. The Group is
planning to increase capital investment in
its rental fleet during 2012, but to a level
that should still enable the Group to
generate free cash and make further
progress in reducing debt levels.
Employee turnover has increased to 18%
from 15% in the prior year, with ‘normalised’
employee turnover, after removing the
impact of restructuring, increasing to 10%
from 8% in 2010. This increase is
disappointing given our on-going focus on
employee retention. We are looking into the
underlying causes to take the appropriate
measures to seek improvement in the
coming year, as we remain convinced that
having a stable and well motivated employee
base is an important factor in improving the
overall performance of the Group.
“The Group made good progress during 201 1 in
improving the financial performance of its operations.
As we move into 2012, we are encouraged by the
operational efficiency gains made to date and
the impact that these will have on the Group’s
operating leverage.”
Chief Executive’s review
Don Kenny
Group Chief Executive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lavendon Group plc 2011     5 Review of performance 
by country
A summary of the revenues and operating
profit by each business unit is given below:
                                                                              Underlying
                                  Revenues                       operating  profit
                                                                             2010                     2011
£’millions              2010      2011    2010    Margin   2011  Margin
UK                 112.1  112.3    11.3   10.1%   13.6 12.1%
Germany        47.3    51.2      1.3     2.7%     4.1    8.0%
Belgium          13.3    15.7      2.4   18.0%     3.5 22.3%
France             15.3    17.9      1.1     7.2%     2.0 11.2%
Middle East    29.5    28.3      8.6   29.2%     6.8 24.0%
                      217.5  225.4    24.7   11.4%   30.0 13.3%
All figures shown in the above table relate
to continuing businesses and are before
amortisation charges and exceptional items.
We have structured the Group so that each
country of operation is viewed as a separate
reporting profit centre, supported by central
Group service functions. Each operation has
its own management team responsible for
delivering agreed performance targets.
The performance of each continuing
operation is summarised below, with all
financial figures being underlying numbers
quoted before amortisation charges,
exceptional items and movements in the fair
value of financial derivatives.
UK
Rental revenues in the UK increased by 7%
during the year to £108.4 million (2010:
£100.9 million), principally driven by a 5%
year on year pricing improvement and good
volume growth from the first eight months
of the year. Volumes peaked in September
and then declined towards the year-end as a
number of major projects completed. The
growth in rental revenues fully absorbed the
anticipated decline in sales of ex-rental fleet
machines (a smaller number of units were
available for sale in 2011), resulting in total
revenues for the year being stable at £112.3
million (2010: £112.1 million).
Although we saw some softening in demand
towards the end of the year as the major
projects completed, we believe our market
share has increased, particularly with major
users of powered access equipment in the
construction sector. This progress has been
made by increasingly being recognised as a
provider of value-added services and not
just a supplier of rental machines. We
strengthened this position during the year
with the acquisition of Blue Sky Access
Limited (“Blue Sky”), a company that designs
and engineers products to improve
efficiency and safety in the use of powered
access equipment. The acquisition of Blue
Sky provides an additional point of
differentiation between the Group and the
market place, and should facilitate further
market share gains going forward.
Towards the end of the year, we announced
the decision to rationalise our three operating
brands in the UK (Nationwide Platforms,
Panther and EPL Skylift) under the common
name of Nationwide Platforms. This has been
implemented successfully in the first weeks of
2012, with strong acceptance from our
combined customer base.
The combination of the rental revenue
growth and operating efficiencies derived
from transportation and sales force
optimisation actions enabled underlying
operating profits to increase by 20% to
£13.6 million (2010: £11.3 million), with
margins improving to 12.1% from 10.1%
in the previous year.
Germany
Total revenues in Germany increased by
8% during the year to £51.2 million
(2010: £47.3 million), with rental revenues
also improving by 8% to £49.7 million
(2010: £46.0 million). This improvement was
principally volume-driven, although towards
the end of the year, we saw early signs of
pricing starting to firm.
During the year, the German management
team was strengthened and a detailed plan
to improve performance was agreed and is
being implemented. The plan encompasses
specific actions to improve operational
efficiency through reducing transportation
capacity, improving the availability of the
fleet and realigning the sales resource to be
cost effective. In addition, the capital base
of the business has been reviewed and a
controlled reduction in fleet size of
approximately 600 machines is being
undertaken to adjust our capability to be
more in line with the demand from markets
that we are targeting.
The actions being taken are designed to
improve the ROCE performance of the
business and ensure its contribution to the
overall financial performance of the Group is
more reflective of the level of capital
deployed in the territory. To date, we are
encouraged by the progress made and expect
to see the rate at which benefits are realised
gather pace as we move through 2012.
The revenue growth in the year, combined
with the operational efficiency gains to date,
enabled underlying operating profits to
increase three-fold to £4.1 million (2010:
£1.3 million) and margins improve to 8%
from 2.7% in 2010.
Belgium
Belgium’s total revenues grew strongly by
18% to £15.7 million (2010: £13.3 million),
driven by an increase in rental revenues of
17% to £14.8 million (2010: £12.6 million).
This revenue performance reflects a robust
level of activity throughout the year and a
stable pricing environment. Underlying
operating profits increased by 46% to £3.5
million (2010: £2.4 million), with margins up
at a healthy 22.3% from 18.0% in the
previous year.
Towards the end of the year, the Belgian
fleet was increased through the transfer of
225 machines following the closure of the
Group’s Spanish operation.
This expansion in fleet provides Belgium
with the necessary capacity to facilitate
further revenue growth and support the
future development of the business.
France
Our French business grew strongly in 2011,
with total revenues increasing by 17% to
£17.9 million (2010: £15.3 million), and rental
revenues improving by 16% to £17.4 million
(2010: £15.0 million). This strong revenue
performance has been supported by
excellent availability of fleet and improved
transport efficiency, leading to an underlying
Chief Executive’s review
continued
6          Lavendon Group plc 2011 operating profit increase of 82% to £2.0
million (2010: £1.1 million), with margins
improving to 11.2% from 7.2% in the
previous year.
As with Belgium, the scale of our French
operation was increased towards the end of
the year with approximately 350 machines
being transferred from Spain. Whilst this
increase in fleet will take some time to be
absorbed in 2012, it will be placed within the
existing depot network and consequently,
the operating leverage of the business will
be improved as the expanded fleet
becomes utilised.
Middle East
Revenues from our Middle East operations
have progressively improved throughout the
year with rates of year on year growth
accelerating across the second half. This
growth has been driven through increases in
activity in the Saudi Arabia and Abu Dhabi
markets, which have more than offset
continued weakness in Dubai and Qatar.
We believe that the recovery in activity levels
is sustainable and consequently, we are
committing approximately £5.0 million of
additional capital to the region in 2012.
This investment will supplement the re-
distribution of fleet and personnel that has
taken place during the year and will be used
to expand the rental fleet to secure further
revenue growth opportunities.
Total revenues for the year declined to
£28.3 million (2010: £29.5 million), weighted
towards the first half of the year and to a
decline in the revenues derived from the sale
of new machines. Rental revenues increased
by 1% to £26.6 million (2010: £26.3 million),
with constant local currency revenues
showing a 5% year on year increase.
Underlying operating profits for the year
reduced to £6.8 million (2010: £8.6 million),
weighted towards the first nine months of
the year, with an overall margin of 24.2%
(2010: 29.2%). The region returned to year
on year profit growth on a monthly basis in
the final quarter.
Future developments
The Group made good progress during 2011
in improving the financial performance of its
operations. As we move into 2012, we are
encouraged by the operational efficiency
gains made to date and the impact that
these will have on the Group’s operating
leverage as revenue growth is delivered. Our
improvement plans for Germany are being
implemented and our Middle East operation
is now demonstrating a sustained recovery
in revenues. The increased level of capital
investment in the Group’s rental fleet
planned for 2012 will be funded from our
annual cash flows, thereby still allowing free
cash to be generated to further reduce net
debt levels.
Whilst clearly conscious of the continuing
uncertain economic environment, we
believe that the combination of “self-help”
measures to improve operational
performance, our selective investment in
high return assets and close management of
cash generation, should enable the Group to
make further progress in improving its return
on capital employed in the coming year.
Don Kenny
Group Chief Executive
29 February 2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lavendon Group plc 2011     7 The way we do business
8          Lavendon Group plc 2011
In recent years, we have concentrated our efforts on building our
market position in those sectors that value service, reliability and
product range above that of simply achieving the lowest price.
At the same time, we have sought to widen the geographic spread
of our operations to reduce the impact of fluctuations in the
economic circumstances of a particular country in which we operate.
During 2011 we have continued the development of consultative
capabilities to offer solutions to major powered access users,
enabling them to achieve safer, more controlled and more efficient
environments for their staff involved in working at height.
Through deployment of these, often intellectual-property protected
solutions, we believe we can continue to win market share in
maturing markets with a proposition based on total value added,
rather than direct rental price.
Our strategy
Delivering superior returns on capital employed (“ROCE”).
Competitive environment
The competitive environments that we experience vary from country to country.
However, a consistent feature is that the markets are highly competitive, serviced by
operations ranging from divisions of public companies, through private equity backed
ventures, to privately owned family businesses, with the construction sector an
important market and particularly sensitive to pricing levels. 
We believe that by achieving superior returns;
• substantial shareholder value will be created;
• additional growth capital will be attracted when required; and
• the Group’s investment case will be fundamentally differentiated
against available alternatives.
Our strategy will be delivered through deploying capital into markets
that offer attractive margins and/or growth potential, and ensuring our
businesses operate with sufficient scale and efficiency that strong
market positions are secured to support the future growth of the Group.
We aim to  increase the ROCE from 9% to in excess of the weighted
average cost of capital (“WACC”)  over the business cycle.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Lavendon Group plc 2011     9
• The TechX programme sets uniformly high quality standards in
key operational areas, including equipment storage, maintenance
and cleanliness.
• The programme supports our commitment to the highest health and
safety standards across all of our locations, protecting employees
and all those who visit our sites.
• The improved efficiencies that TechX delivers, provides our customers
with the high quality service expected from our Company.
• The process of going through our TechX programme automatically
qualifies successful locations for ISO 14001, the environmental
management standard.
• To date, 35 depots worldwide have achieved TechX status.
Further depots are in programme for 2012.
Safety 
As a business, safety is at the very core of all of our work. From providing the ideal equipment for
work up to 100m, to developing new safety innovations and being Europe’s largest working at
height training provider, we aim to improve safety for all powered access users.
TechX
Our TechX programme is an internal standard designed to improve efficiencies in work,
health and safety and general housekeeping. The programme takes its lead from the
5S method, which is embedded in the Toyota Production Management lean philosophy –
Sort, Set, Standardise, Shine and Sustain.
• We aim to ensure our customers receive the right equipment, in the
right place, every time. This means working with our clients to
overcome their challenges and partnering them in their success.
• We strive to take on the access industry’s biggest challenges,
finding answers to entrapment and material handling issues with
pioneering innovations.
• In 2011 we unveiled the SkySiren as the industry’s most
comprehensive safeguard against entrapment. Developed alongside
major UK contractors, the launch of the SkySiren prompted
Skanska UK to mandate anti-entrapment solutions on all boom
lifts used on their projects.
• As Europe’s largest provider of working at height training, we’re
helping drive the standards in safety for all equipment users. 
• We’re working with safety agencies internationally to make sure
that working at height best practice is a reality for every powered
access user. The way we do business
The Group is the European and Middle East market leader in
the rental of powered access equipment, operating a fleet of
20,000 machines through a network of 95 depots located in
Belgium, France, Germany, the UK and a number of countries
in the Middle East.
11,200
Machine fleet
870
Employees
Nationwide Platforms
Nationwide Platforms is the UK’s
largest provider of powered access
platforms, working at height training
and machine sales.
Operating from 43 depots across
the country, Nationwide Platforms
deliver an unrivalled fleet of access
platforms up to 72m.
dk Rental
dk Rental continues to be a market
leader in the rental and sale of access
equipment in Belgium. The business
operates a modern fleet of boom 
and scissor lifts together with
telehandlers and fork-lift trucks. 
Gardemann
Operating for over 30 years,
Gardemann is widely recognised 
as THE expert in rental of
truckmounted access equipment in
Germany. Through a network of 
28 depots covering the whole of the
country, Gardemann offers a high
level of customer service to local 
and national customers alike.
1,300
Machine fleet
60
Employees
3,800
Machine fleet
380
Employees
10        Lavendon Group plc 2011 Business and
market overview
Powered access equipment is
designed to enable people to work
safely and efficiently at height.
It is used in a wide range of
market sectors and applications,
including construction, civil
engineering, cleaning, inspection,
facilities management, industrial
maintenance, broadcasting and
telecommunications.
In addition to general economic
conditions, demand for the equipment
is driven by the following factors:
• Commercial pressure to reduce
project timescales, where speed,
convenience, efficiency and safety
are prime concerns.
• Increased focus on safety in the
workplace, supported by ever
more stringent Health and Safety
legislation, accelerating the
substitution of more traditional
methods of access, such as ladders,
scaffolding and mobile towers
by powered access.
• The increasing modularisation of
construction processes, which
tends to produce a greater
demand for access equipment
on construction sites.
• Escalating costs and shortage of
skilled labour in the construction
and refurbishment sectors, leading
to a need to ensure those
available are equipped with the
necessary tools to be as
productive as possible.
Powered access equipment tends to
be rented rather than owned for the
following three main reasons:
• The equipment has a relatively high
capital cost and stringent transport
and maintenance requirements.
• A range of equipment would be
required to satisfy all applications.
• The need for the equipment tends
to be infrequent and inconsistent
due to varying work schedules
and applications.
The combination of the drivers of
demand and the efficiencies gained
from the rental of the equipment,
should, we believe, continue to
enable the market to grow in the
coming years, subject to prevailing
economic conditions.
1,700
Machine fleet
100
Employees
Lavendon France
Lavendon France is a specialist
provider of powered access
equipment in France’s major
industrial centres. Operating from 
six strategically placed depots,
Lavendon France provides a fleet 
of modern equipment across 
the country for construction,
facilities management and other
business services.
Rapid – Middle East
Rapid is the market leader in the
rental and sale of access equipment
in the Gulf region. Through
operations in the UAE, Saudi Arabia,
Oman, Qatar and Bahrain, the
business is ideally positioned to
support current and future
investment in infrastructure
development in the region.
2,000
Machine fleet
180
Employees
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lavendon Group plc 2011   11
