 6    Lavendon Group plc 2012
Operating and financial review
Chief Executive’s review
Introduction
This Operating and Financial Review
(“OFR”) describes the main factors and
trends underlying the Group’s performance
and financial position during the year ,
together with how these factors and trends
could impact the Group’s future
development.
The review has been prepared for the
Group as a whole and therefore gives
greater emphasis to those matters that 
are significant to Lavendon Group plc 
and its subsidiaries when viewed as a 
combined entity.
Business and market overview
The Group is the European and Middle East
market leader in the rental of powered
access equipment, operating a fleet of
almost 20,000 machines through a network
of 83 depots located in Belgium, France,
Germany, the UK and a number of
countries in the Middle East.
Powered access equipment is designed
to enable people to work safely and
efficiently at height. It is used in a wide
range of market sectors and applications,
including construction, civil engineering,
cleaning, inspection, facilities
management, industrial maintenance,
broadcasting and telecommunications.
In addition to general economic conditions,
demand for the equipment is driven by
the following factors:
• Commercial pressure to reduce
project timescales, where speed,
convenience, efficiency and safety
are prime concerns.
• Increased focus on safety in the
workplace, supported by ever more
stringent Health and Safety legislation,
accelerating the substitution of more
traditional methods of access, such as
ladders, scaffolding and mobile towers 
by powered access.
• The increasing modularisation of
construction processes, which tends to
produce a greater demand for access
equipment on construction sites.
• Escalating costs and shortage of skilled
labour in the construction and
refurbishment sectors, leading to a need
to ensure those available are equipped
with the necessary tools to be as
productive as possible.
Powered access equipment tends to be
rented rather than owned for the following
main reasons:
• The equipment has a relatively high
capital cost and stringent transport and
maintenance requirements.
• A range of equipment would be required
to satisfy all applications.
• The need for the equipment tends to be
infrequent and inconsistent due to varying
work schedules and applications.
The combination of the drivers of demand
and the efficiencies gained from the rental
of the equipment, should, we believe,
continue to enable the market to grow in
the coming years, subject to prevailing
economic conditions.
The competitive environments that we
experience vary from country to country.
However , a consistent feature is that the
markets are highly competitive, serviced by
operations ranging from divisions of public
companies, through private equity backed
ventures, to privately owned family
businesses, with the construction sector an
important market and particularly sensitive
to pricing levels. In recent years, we have
concentrated our efforts on building our
market position in those sectors that value
service, reliability and product range above
that of simply achieving the lowest price. At
the same time, we have sought to improve
our operational and capital efficiency
through a wide-ranging programme of
initiatives, to reduce the impact of fluctuations in the economic circumstances
of one or more of the countries in which we
operate. During 2012 we have continued the
development of consultative capabilities to
offer solutions to major powered access
users, enabling them to achieve safer , more
controlled and more efficient environments
for their staff involved in working at height.
Through deployment of these, often
intellectual-property protected solutions,
we believe we can continue to win market
share in maturing markets with a
proposition based on total value added,
rather than direct rental price.
Strategy and business objectives
We have seen a further improvement in the
Group’s financial performance during 2012,
despite the continuation of an uncertain
economic climate in our European markets.
This improvement, driven by operational
efficiency gains and leveraging strong
market positions, has enabled good
progress to be made towards our key
strategic objective of delivering returns on
capital employed (ROCE) that are above
our weighted average cost of capital over
the business cycle. We believe that by
achieving this objective; 
• substantial shareholder value will 
be created;
• additional growth capital will be 
attracted when required; and
• the Group’s investment case will be
fundamentally differentiated against
available alternatives.
Our strategy will be delivered through
deploying capital into markets that offer
attractive margins and/or growth potential,
and ensuring our businesses operate with
sufficient scale and efficiency that strong
market positions are secured to support
the future growth of the Group.
The Board monitors progress against its
strategic goal by reference to key
performance indicators. The key
performance indicators for the period 2008
to 2012 are shown in the table below:
                               2012     2011    2010    2009     2008
Revenue
1
(£m)   234.6   225.4 217.5  217.5  245.8
Underlying 
EBITDA margin
2
(%)                     32.2%  31.8% 31.4% 35.6%  37.1%
Underlying 
Operating profit 
margin
3
(%)        14.9%  13.3% 11.4% 14.2%  18.2%
Debt to 
Underlying 
EBITDA ratio
4
       1.28    1.49   2.00    2.26    3.13
Return on 
Capital 
Employed
5
(%)   10.7%    9.0%   6.6%   6.8%  10.8%
Employee 
turnover
6
(%)        19%     18%    15%    31%     26%
Definitions
1 Revenue = revenue from continuing businesses as per
the Group income statement. 
2 EBITDA margin = Underlying EBITDA as a percentage of
revenue. Underlying EBITDA is defined as earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation,
exceptional items and movements in the fair value of
financial derivatives from continuing businesses, where
all figures are as per the Group financial statements.
3 Underlying operating profit margin = Underlying
operating profit as a percentage of revenue. Underlying
operating profit is defined as operating profit before
amortisation charges, exceptional items and
movements in the fair value of financial derivatives
from continuing operations, where all figures are as per
the Group income statement.
4 Debt to underlying EBITDA ratio = the Group’s total
net debt divided by EBITDA. Net debt is as per the
Group financial statements, and EBITDA is as defined in
definition 2 above plus EBITDA from discontinued
businesses where applicable.
5 Return on capital employed = operating profit before
exceptional items as a percentage of capital employed.
Capital employed being the aggregate of the average of
the Group’s opening and closing net assets and net
debt, as per the Group financial statements.
6 Employee turnover = number of employees leaving as
a percentage of total workforce on an annualised basis.
All staff departures are included within the calculation,
including restructures and redundancies. 
(Source: internal data).
The table demonstrates the improvement
in the Group’s financial performance in
2012, with revenues continuing to show
growth and underlying EBITDA and
operating margins both demonstrating
further improvement. As we planned,
investment in our rental fleet and
operating infrastructure increased
considerably in 2012 to £47.9 million
(from the £16.9 million invested in 2011),
however we were still able to make a
modest reduction of £9.3 million in the
Group’s net debt levels due to the
strength of our operating cash flows.
The debt to underlying EBITDA ratio has
reduced to 1.28 times from 1.49 times at
the end of 2011, an important indicator
of the improving financial strength of the
Group. In 2013, we will continue to invest
at the levels seen in 2012 and again plan
to fully fund this expenditure through
annual cash flows.
Employee turnover has increased to 19%
from 18% in the prior year , with ‘normalised’
employee turnover , after removing the
impact of restructuring, increasing to 11%
from 10% in 2011. This increase is
disappointing given our focus on employee
retention. We will continue to look at the
underlying causes behind this movement, so
that the appropriate measures can be taken
to improve retention in the coming year ,
and remain convinced that having a stable
and well motivated employee base is an
important factor in improving the overall
performance of the Group.
Review of performance
by country
A summary of the revenues and operating
profit by each business unit is given below:
                                             Underlying        Underlying
                                              operating          operating
                       Revenue             profit          profit margin
£’000          2012     2011    2012  2011      2012     2011
UK         114.8  112.3   18.9 17.7  16.5%  15.8%
Germany 47.4    51.2     5.0   4.1  10.5%    8.0%
Belgium   15.6    15.7     2.8   3.5  18.0%  22.3%
France     19.7    17.9     2.7   2.0  13.7%  11.2%
Middle 
East         37.1    28.3   10.5   6.8  28.3% 24.0%
Corporate
items                              (4.9) (4.1)
             234.6  225.4   35.0 30.0  14.9%  13.3%
All figures shown in the above table relate to continuing 
businesses and are before amortisation charges,
exceptional items and movements in the fair value of
financial derivatives.
                                                                                                                                                                                          Lavendon Group plc 2012    7
Don Kenny
Group Chief Executive
“We have seen a further improvement in the Group’s
financial performance during 2012, despite the
continuation of an uncertain economic climate in our
European markets. This improvement, driven by
operational efficiency gains and leveraging strong market
positions, has enabled good progress to be made...” Operating and financial review
Chief Executive’s review
continued
8    Lavendon Group plc 2012
We have structured the Group so that each
country of operation is viewed as a
separate reporting profit centre, supported
by central Group service functions. Each
operation has its own management team
responsible for delivering agreed
performance targets.
The performance of each continuing
operation is summarised below, with all
financial figures being underlying numbers
quoted before amortisation charges,
exceptional items and movements in the
fair value of financial derivatives.
UK
Rental revenues in the UK were broadly
flat for the year at £107.7 million (2011:
£108.4 million), as a year on year pricing
improvement of 1.5% compensated for a
decline in volumes during the year. An
increase in the sale of new and ex-rental
fleet equipment enabled the UK to grow
total revenues in the year by 2% to
£114.8 million (2011: £112.3 million).
Against the backdrop of a relatively weak
market, we believe our UK business is
continuing to gain market share with
major users of powered access equipment,
by differentiating itself through the
provision of value adding solutions that
improve safety and efficiency. At the same
time, we have improved the UK’s fleet
mix through the replacement of some
1,700 rental units, enhancing the range
of equipment on offer to our customers
and increasing our revenue generating
capacity. The combination of a well
invested fleet and a service offering that
goes beyond the pure rental of equipment,
underpins our ability to secure market
share and provides a degree of resilience
to pricing pressures. 
The UK business has been a key
contributor to the Group’s operational and
capital efficiency programme over the
past two years, with improvements in
pricing, transport efficiency and sales
resource allocation. The progress made in
transitioning to a more efficient operating
model has contributed to the increase in
underlying operating profits in the year to
£18.9 million (2011: £17.7 million) with
margins improving to 16.5% (2011: 15.8%).
Germany
Total Euro revenues in Germany were flat
compared to 2011, with an almost two fold
increase in revenues derived from the sale
of ex-rental fleet equipment off-setting 
a 6% decline in rental revenues. Once
converted to sterling, total revenues
declined by 7% to £47.5 million (2011:
£51.2 million), with rental revenues
declining by 12% to £43.5 million (2011:
£49.7 million).
Demand levels in Germany continue to be
unpredictable, with volumes in 2012,
particularly following the summer months,
not reaching prior year levels and not
reflecting traditional seasonal patterns.
Consequently, our focus was on the
continued delivery of our business plan to
increase the operational efficiency of the
business and to lower its capital base. In
particular over the past two years, the
German rental fleet has been reduced by
over 700 machines, with a net reduction of
almost 400 machines in 2012. This action
has lowered the German capital base,
removed a future capital replacement
requirement and generated increased
disposal revenues and profits.
Despite the weaker revenues seen in 2012,
the improvements in the cost efficiency of
the business and the reduced capital base
have delivered a marked improvement in
the ROCE performance of Germany, both
in absolute terms and in its relative
contribution to the overall financial
performance of the Group. Whilst the full
benefits of our restructure of the business
are yet to be seen, and, in the short term,
its delivery can create a degree of revenue
disruption, we are encouraged by the
progress made to date.
Underlying operating profits increased to
£5.0 million (2011: £4.1 million) and margins
improved to 10.5% from 8.0% in 2011.                                                                                                                                                                                           Lavendon Group plc 2012    9
Belgium
Belgium’s total Euro revenues grew by 6%,
with rental revenues increasing by 1% and
revenues from the sale of new and ex-
rental fleet equipment almost doubling.
Once converted to sterling, total revenues
were flat at £15.6 million (2011: £15.7
million), with rental revenues declining by
5% to £14.0 million (2011: £14.8 million).
This revenue performance was
disappointing given our expectation that
the transfer of fleet from our closed
Spanish operation towards the end of 2011
would be progressively utilised through the
year. As we moved through the second half
of the year and pricing pressure started to
emerge in the market, we took the view
that the additional fleet would not be fully
utilised and consequently commenced a
process to redistribute fleet and dispose of
surplus units.
Underlying operating profits reflect the
increase in the cost base in the year
following the transfer of fleet from Spain,
declining to £2.8 million (2011: £3.5
million), with margins declining but
remaining relatively healthy at 18.0%
(2011: 22.3%).
France
Our French business grew strongly in 2012,
with both total and rental Euro revenues
increasing by 17%. Once converted to
sterling, both total and rental revenues
increased by 10%.
This strong revenue performance has been
driven by a well utilised expanded fleet,
with excellent availability, and supported
by a targeted sales and marketing strategy.
Although the market has remained
relatively flat throughout the year , we have
been able to gain market share, and whilst
pricing has eased this has been more than
compensated by increased volumes. The
operating leverage derived from the
increased revenues was good, as the
expanded fleet was placed within the
existing depot network, and this generated
a 36% increase in underlying operating
profits to £2.7 million (2011: £2.0 million),
with margins improving to 13.7% from
11.2% in the previous year. 
Additional capital will be allocated to our
French business in 2013 to support our
growth aspirations in this market. 
Middle East
Revenues from our Middle East business
increased across the year , with the rate of
growth accelerating as we moved through
the second half of the year. Total local
currency revenues, including the sale of
new and ex-rental fleet equipment
increased by 29%, with local currency
rental revenues increasing by 35%. 
On conversion to sterling, total revenues
increased by 31% to £37.1 million 
(2011: £28.3 million) with rental revenues
increasing by 37% to £36.3 million 
(2011: £26.6 million).
Although this growth is centred on our
main markets of Saudi Arabia and Abu
Dhabi, our other operations in the region
experienced increased demand. To meet
this increased demand and support the
growth of our business, we progressively
allocated more capital to the region as we
went through the year , investing a total 
of £12 million in fleet expansion.
We believe that the current activity levels
are sustainable and likely to improve
further as we move through 2013.
Consequently we are committing additional
capital to the region in the coming year , to
ensure we are well placed to benefit from
the growth opportunities that become
available. We believe the scale of the
potential in the region could be significant
over the medium term and will warrant 
a further shift of our available capital into
the region over time.
Underlying operating profits for the 
year increased to £10.5 million (2011: 
£6.8 million), with margins improving to 
28.3% (2011: 24.0%).
Future developments
The Group made good progress during 2012
in improving the financial performance of
its operations, with strong revenue growth
in France and the Middle East being
augmented by further operational
efficiency gains.
In the coming year , we will ensure that the
final year of our three year business
improvement plan is delivered and that 
the overall targeted efficiency gain of 
£5.0 million is secured by the end of 2013.
At the same time, we will allocate
additional capital, principally into the
Middle East market but also on a smaller
scale into France, to support our ability to
meet increased demand, whilst continuing 
to manage our capital base in Germany 
to ensure further recovery in its ROCE 
is delivered.
The planned capital investment programme
for 2013 is, as in 2012, circa £50 million,
and will again be funded from our
operating cash flows, thereby ensuring that
the Group maintains a comfortable level of
borrowing and a healthy capital structure.
Whilst ever conscious of the continuing
uncertain economic environment, we
believe that the combination of “self-help”
measures to improve operational
performance, our selective investment in
attractive markets and close management
of cash generation, should enable the
Group to make further progress in
improving its return on capital employed 
in the coming year.
Don Kenny
Group Chief Executive
28 February 2013
                                                                                                                                                                                          Lavendon Group plc 2012    9 Our businesses and 
global reach
Nationwide Platforms
Nationwide Platforms is the UK’s largest provider of powered
access platforms, working at height training and machine sales.
Operating from 38 depots across the country, Nationwide
Platforms deliver an unrivalled fleet of access platforms 
up to 70m.
11,200 38 870
Machine fleet Depots Employees
Gardemann
Operating for over 30 years, Gardemann is widely recognised 
as the expert in rental of truckmounted access equipment in
Germany. Through a network of 28 depots covering the whole 
of the country, Gardemann offers a high level of customer 
service to local and national customers alike.
3,500 28 380
Machine fleet Depots Employees
The Group is the European and Middle 
East market leader in the rental of
powered access equipment, operating 
a fleet of nearly 20,000 machines through 
a network of 83 depots located in Belgium,
France, Germany, the UK and a number 
of countries in the Middle East.
10  Lavendon Group plc 2012 83depots
strategically located 
to serve Europe and 
the Middle East
                                                                                                                                                                                         Lavendon Group plc 2012  11
Established Depots
Deployment Reach
dk rental
dk rental continues to be a market leader in the
rental and sale of access equipment in Belgium.
The business operates a modern fleet of boom
and scissor lifts together with telehandlers 
and fork-lift trucks. 
1,300 3 60
Machine fleet Depots Employees
Lavendon France
Lavendon France is a specialist provider of powered access
equipment in France’s major industrial centres. Operating from
six strategically placed depots, Lavendon France provides a
fleet of modern equipment across the country for construction,
facilities management and other business services.
1,700 6 100
Machine fleet Depots Employees
Rapid — Middle East
Rapid is the market leader in the rental and sale of access
equipment in the Gulf region. Through operations in the UAE,
Saudi Arabia, Oman, Qatar and Bahrain, the business is ideally
positioned to support current and future investment in
infrastructure development in the region.
2, 100 8 180
Machine fleet Depots Employees
International projects
In support of our multi-national customers, Lavendon now
provides powered access solutions for specific customer projects
in other countries around the globe and not just in those
territories, above, where we have a permanent presence.
Our international projects business now provides bespoke
customer powered access solutions further afield and is
coordinated by our Middle East operation. It continues to
actively work with customers to further expand the provision
of services where sufficient demand arises.
                                                                                                                                                                                          Lavendon Group plc 2012  11 12  Lavendon Group plc 2012
Health and Safety Week 201 2
In another Lavendon Group first for 2012, business units in Germany,
the UK, and the Middle East held national Health and Safety Weeks
in October.
The way we do business
Lavendon in 2012
To help convey this message, in 2012 we created a guide which shows
how we strive to keep your safety as our priority. From engineering and 
operations, to customer service, training, and procurement, the brochure
details the steps we take to put safety first.
Of course,‘Your safety, our priority’ is about more than a document.
It’s about our belief in providing the solutions which truly safeguard
the wellbeing of all individuals, groups, and businesses who rely on us.
In 2013 we will be reinforcing the “Your safety, our priority” message
with specific campaigns in which we hope to raise the awareness of the
processes, policies and plans to enhance our reputation as a leading
safety solutions provider.
Your safety, our priority
At Lavendon Group, your safety is always our priority.
Whatever your relationship with the Group, as a
customer , an employee, a supplier , or other stakeholder ,
that is the goal, we’re committed to achieving.
Health and Safety Week featured demonstrations
for employees on vehicle and tyre safety, as well
as a number of workshops focused on welfare
and well-being in the workplace.
A Health and Safety Quiz held for UK business
employees saw a huge response rate throughout
the company. Pictured: Marc Johnson (Regional
Director - South East), left, hands the 2012
Health and Safety Quiz winner prize to Workshop
Foreman Graham Sharp (Kent depot).
Looking back 
on 201 2–
Getting “Fit 
for the Future”
Last year a three year “Fit for the Future”
plan was launched across the Group to 
help coordinate key targets and outline
areas for improvement and new 
success. Broken down into clear and 
straightforward aims, these were: 
Growth: Improve business financial
performance on the previous year
Safety: Continue to improve our 
safety culture in all business areas 
Communication: Begin monthly 
internal communication TeamTalks 
in all locations to share information,
expertise and support
Excellence: Implement Technical
Excellence (TechX) standards in 
all depots throughout the Group
One year on, and all key targets have 
been met, and an updated plan is about 
to be launched.
                                   
Designed to encourage
improved awareness of
occupational safety and
health for all employees,
the events of the week
were adapted to specific
regional requirements and also aimed to
embrace suppliers and customers. 
Events taking place through the week
included:
• Tyre safety awareness workshops (UK)
• BlueSky product customer demonstration
events (UK and Middle East)
• Director tours of depots and offices to 
gain safety feedback (UK, Germany 
and Middle East)
• Employee health care scheme guidance
(UK, Germany and Middle East)
• “Healthy eating” hampers delivered 
to all depots and offices (UK)                                                                                                                                                                                           Lavendon Group plc 2012  13
Building upon this, the Lavendon Group
announced the creation of BlueSky
Solutions, a new brand which will be the
standard bearer for the introduction of
safety innovations to new territories where
the Group does not have a rental presence.
From its base in the UK, the team behind
BlueSky Solutions will continue development
of new product innovations, as well as
supporting the Group rental businesses in
promoting the use of BlueSky products by
the traditional rental customer community.
A golden year for SkySiren
®
Following its launch at the end of 2011, 2012 proved to be another successful 
year for the SkySiren
®
, with the ground-breaking anti-entrapment solution receiving 
a series of high profile awards. These were:
• Institute of Occupational Safety and Health’s (IOSH) Innovation of the Year prize
• The Construction Health and Safety Group’s (CHSG) Beaumont Safety Trophy 
in recognition of the best new product designed to improve occupational safety 
and health in the industry
• SkySiren
®
also contributed to Nationwide Platforms winning the Contribution to 
Safe Working at Height accolade at the International Awards for Powered Access
Scan the QR code with your smart phone
app to see a video of SkySiren
®
in action.
Alternatively, you can see the video at:
http://www.nationwideplatforms.co.uk/
AboutUs/VideoGallery/SkySiren/
170SkySiren
®
customers
The uptake of SkySiren
®
by 170 
of our customers within two years
demonstrates how important this 
device is in supporting their 
health and safety obligations
Introducing
BlueSky Solutions
Following its acquisition in 2011,
2012 was a year of considerable
success for the BlueSky range of
safety innovations. A number of
major multinational contractors
have mandated the use of these
products on their sites. We have
also received wider industry
acclaim and awards as the products
gain traction in our markets. 14  Lavendon Group plc 2012
The way we do business
Lavendon in 2012
Customer 
survey 
highlights 
(Group)
We believe it’s essential to
continually listen, learn, and make
improvements for our customers.
Last year we held a Customer Survey
designed to give us the information and
intelligence to continue to deliver and
strive to go beyond providing truly market
leading products and services.
The responses received were very positive
and pleasing, indicating that our businesses
are excelling in a number of key areas:
• Machine availability
• On-time deliveries
• Local service and support
• Product innovations
• Ease of ordering
• Staff friendliness
How are we doing as an employer? 
What the Lavendon Group Employee Survey said about us... Last year we invited 
all of our employees to participate in the Lavendon Group Employee Survey. 
We have received some excellent
feedback from our staff and we have
now outlined our plans to build upon our
successes and make further improvements
where we believe we can do better.
Highlights from these results, include:
• 36% of employees answered
10/10 on how likely they were
to recommend Lavendon Group
companies as employers, with
10 being most likely and one
being least likely
• Our overall response rate 63%
Some of our employees also took the
time and effort to comment further in
support of their responses, examples of
which we have are:
“
All staff at all levels are approachable for information and help.
The company is well recognised and we are always encouraged to
help others and not to be afraid to ask for help.
”
“
The support the company offers its employees
when they want to further themselves is quite
special. The training offered, and encouraged,
is over and above what is required to do 
the job, which I think says a lot about 
the company.
”
“
Being the market leaders gives me 
a feeling that the business has
continued to be strong throughout 
the recession, and therefore I feel 
the job security is as high as 
possible in these times.
”                                                                                                                                                                                           Lavendon Group plc 2012  15
These included:
• The Royal Society for the Prevention of
Accidents (RoSPA) gave the business its 
Gold Award for the third year running. 
This is awarded for commitment to making
continual improvements to occupational
safety and health
• SAFE contractor once again recognised the
safety commitments of the business by
awarding its stamp of approval to the
consistent and safety-focused processes
and policies of the company
• After years of commitment to build upon
the International Standard Organisation’s
(1SO) 9001 and 14001 marks, which
represent quality and environmental
management respectively, the business
achieved the ISO 18001 for its achievements
in successful and consistent occupational
health and safety management
Additionally, the business also received
recognition at the International Awards 
for Powered Access, receiving the
Contribution to Safe Working at
Height accolade in praise of the
company’s holistic approach to health
and safety, which includes innovations,
training, customer forums and
employee development. 
That means all employees, regardless of
their role, location, or business unit, will
be given the opportunity to aid the success
of the business and “Take the Lead” in 
five main areas. These are:
• Continuously improve customer
satisfaction and brand recognition
• Ensure our workforce is engaged to
deliver high levels of customer service
and professionalism
• Establish improvement programmes that
meet our business goals
• Ensure our systems are fit for purpose,
enabling us to have a low cost operating
model and ensure our Health and Safety
performance is ‘the’ best in class
• Ensure our sales activities are effective
contributors to growing our profitability
and deliver a culture change in the way
we buy goods and services
This time next year we aim to have taken
even greater strides as a business by
achieving new feats in all of these areas.
Looking forward 
for 2013 
This year , all employees have been encouraged 
to play their part in building on the successes 
of the first year of the “Fit for the Future” plan. 
Recognition for 
business excellence...
In confirmation of our achievements, Group companies received
a number of awards and accreditations during 2012.
3 years running
The Royal Society for the
Prevention of Accidents
(RoSPA) gave the business 
its Gold Award for the third
year running 16  Lavendon Group plc 2012
The way we do business
Lavendon in 2012
Planned
Preventative
Maintenance
programme 
To complement the TechX project,
Lavendon has also introduced
and is rolling out a Planned
Preventative Maintenance
(“PPM”) programme. 
The programme is designed to regularly
replace those parts with a finite life, well
before their mean failure date and thus
reduce machine breakdowns from such 
part failures. This reduces not only the
future likelihood of a customer breakdown,
but also over time is expected to help
reduce the Group’s overall machine
maintenance costs.
The programme has been dovetailed into
the existing servicing and pre-dispatch
inspection processes. Over time the entire
fleet will be brought into the programme.
The TechX project set the new standard 
for our depots in a number of key areas
including engineering and equipment
maintenance, environmental management,
procurement, housekeeping and health 
and safety.
Technical Excellence status is a standard
that a depot must achieve following an
audit by the Lavendon’s TechX Team. 
The accreditation process is certainly not
automatic, and to gain accreditation 
a depot must achieve a pass rate of 95%.
TechX International ensures quality
machines, every time. Once attained annual
reviews are conducted to ensure the industry
leading standards have been maintained.
After five years of commitment, by 2012,
all depots right across the Lavendon Group
achieved at least the basic TechX standard.
Many have even gone far beyond. For all
locations, the transformation has been
clear , with Lavendon Group workshops
standing alone in the industry for the 
unparalleled levels of service, health and
safety and cleanliness.
Now, to help the business continue to
improve upon its engineering and technical
standards, new TechX levels are set to 
be launched. Not only will these new
accreditations demand the highest levels 
of organisation, but also the greatest
standards in the consistent performance 
of its engineers, the safe and effective
maintenance and repairing of equipment,
as well as the integration of business
systems, such as the new Lavendon Visual
Information System (L ViS) which has been
designed to aid operational processes.
Once these standards are achieved, three
new levels of improvements are available
to depots:
• TechX Bronze
• TechX Silver
• TechX Gold
By the close of 2012, 42 of our depots had
achieved TechX Silver status and a further
12 depots were accredited with TechX
Bronze status.
What does Technical 
Excellence (TechX) mean 
to Lavendon Group plc? 
All our customer surveys over the last five years have identified 
machine reliability as a key driver of customer satisfaction and 
customer loyalty. In response Lavendon launched the pioneering
Technical Excellence (“TechX”) project in 2008.
