 Vision for the future
Our long term vision is for Lavendon Group
to become the market leading powered
access rental business and ‘Safe Access
Solutions” provider in its chosen markets. 
We will demonstrate operational excellence,
achieving ‘best in class’ levels of customer
service, operational capability, fleet reliability
and punctuality, while remaining efficient
and flexible to be resilient to market forces.
We aim to be an employer of choice for our
workforce, offering them a rewarding and
challenging career, engaging them to deliver
high levels of service to our customers.
Road map
To achieve this vision we planned three
phases of development, which are set out
on the opposite page.
For 2011 to 2013 we have focused on
improving, standardising and optimising
the Group’s operations to ready it for the
transition into a ‘best in class’ business.
We have called this phase “Fit for the
Future”, and through the rigorous
implementation of a plan to improve both
operational and capital efficiency we have
secured significant financial benefits.
The second phase, titled “Best in Class”
seeks to drive the business onward to
achieve operational excellence.
In the final phase “Safe Access Solutions
Provider” we are looking to leverage our
position to be the de facto market leading
brand and partner of choice for the
customer.
Strategic objectives for 2013
The primary strategic objectives for the year
and their relationship with our business
model are set out on pages 6 to 27. We also
detail our performance against these
objectives and make note of some of the
challenges we have faced in the year.
• During the year we launched the Safe
Access Solutions value proposition.
This document clearly articulates that we
consider safety as the primary focus for
every part of our business, offering the
Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review
Maintaining a clear strategic direction
On joining the Group in October 2011, I set
out a vision for the future of Lavendon and a
roadmap to achieve our primary strategic aim: 
‘deliver a ROCE greater than our WACC over
the business cycle’.
This strategic report provides the opportunity
to communicate that vision, our strategy to
achieve it and the progress made to date.
Don Kenny Group Chief Executive
10   Lavendon Group plc 2013                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Lavendon Group plc 2013   11
customer an insight into how we’ve
designed our world to put their safety
first in everything we do. We believe this
focus will increasingly differentiate our
offering from that of our competitors
and build increasing customer loyalty
to Lavendon Group.
• All Lavendon business units now have a
full time dedicated health and safety
professional in post. We have expanded
our KPI’s to include an accident frequency
rate (“AFR"). The AFR is used to monitor
our performance with regard to “lost time”
accidents requiring an employee or
contractors to three or more days off
from work as a result. In a year where
the number of accidents reported has
increased due to an improved reporting
culture in our business we are pleased
to announce that we beat our target of
0.7 accidents per 100,000 hours worked,
achieving 0.69.
• We have continued to expand the
Engineering Tech-X programme, with 87%
of depot locations now achieving the silver
standard accreditation, with 29 of our
depots moving on to obtaining the
highest gold standard.
• Our BlueSky Solutions business has
continued to grow. The market leading
SkySiren secondary guarding solution is
now mandated by 14 tier 1 contractors in
the UK. We have recently signed a supply
agreement with Genie, one of the world’s
largest powered access equipment
manufacturers, for the supply of
SkySirens. The global availability 
of this secondary guarding technology
should aid the working at height
experience of end users worldwide.
• We have invested nearly £50m in the
rental fleet during the year, expanding the
French and Middle East businesses, and
refreshing a significant part of our
European rental fleet.
Financial performance
The Board monitors progress against its
strategic goal by reference to key
performance indicators. The key
performance indicators for the period 2009
to 2013 are shown on pages 14 and 15.
The Group’s revenues and underlying
operating profits marginally improved
during the year and margins were stable.
In 2013, with strong performances from
our French and Middle East businesses
offsetting the weaker results from the UK
and Germany – demonstrating the benefit
of the Group’s geographic diversity.
Our strong cash flows fully funded our
investment programme in the year and also
enabled the Group’s interest charges to
reduce. The combination of increased
operating profits and a reduced interest
charge enabled the Group’s profitability to
further improve in the year.
Our return on capital employed marginally
declined during the year to 10.6% (2012:
10.7%), primarily due to a weaker than
expected trading performance from our UK
business. Towards the end of the year we
addressed the underlying issues within the
UK, and are starting to see the required
performance improvement being delivered.
As anticipated, despite funding the Group’s
increased investment programme during the
year, the Group’s net debt levels and debt
to underlying EBITDA ratio has remained
broadly stable over the prior year. Our
capital expenditure plans for 2014 will be
similar to that undertaken in 2013, a gross
capex of around £55million, and this will
again be funded through annual cash flows.
Employee turnover has decreased to 18%
from 19% in the prior year, with ‘normalised’
employee turnover, after removing the
impact of restructuring, decreasing to 10%
from 11% in 2012. This reduction follows
increased focus on employee retention.
We will continue to look at the underlying
causes behind voluntary turnover, so that
further appropriate measures can be taken
to improve retention in the coming year.
We remain convinced that having a stable
and well motivated employee base is an
important factor in improving the overall
performance of the Group.
Don Kenny
Group Chief Executive
27 February 2014
Road map
LONG TERM  (2016 onwards)
‘Safe Access Solutions’ provider
Partner of choice
• Leader in our selected markets for the 
 provision of safe access solutions.
• Adjacent capabilities.
• Complementary markets.
• Balanced geographic presence availing  
 of attractive growth opportunities.
SHORT TERM  (2011- 2013)
‘Fit for The Future’
Performance Improvement
• Safety a given, becoming a diﬀerentiator.
• High customer satisfaction.
• Enhance operational capabilities 
 in HDC Engineering and Logistics.
• Implementation of a standardised 
 IT platform.
• Fleet and infrastructure optimisation.
• £5.2m operational eﬃciency delivered.
MEDIUM TERM  (201 4 - 2015)
‘Best In Class’
Operational Excellence
• Unique safety enhancing capabilities 
 and equipment.
• Market leading ‘customer experience’.
• Employer of choice.
• Standard processes, platforms 
 and people structures.
• Eﬀective and eﬃcient infrastructure.
• Optimal ﬂeet size, mix and age.
• £1.5m operational improvement.
Overview Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements
