 Leni Gas and Oil plc    Company Number 05901339 
5 
 
 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
 
Leni Gas and Oil plc has the strategy of identifying, acquiring and developing assets within the oil and gas sector which are seen 
to have an opportunity to unlock significant value through a combination of financial, commercial, and technical expertise. 
 
The Company operates a low risk portfolio of production assets in Trinidad and Spain with significant production and reserves 
upside using similar operating approaches and proven production enhancement techniques.  LGO has specifically targeted 
assets with near term production upside and follow-on exploitation potential.   
 
During 2013 the operational management of LGO concentrated primarily on furthering the field operations in Trinidad.  
Organisational capability was progressively built as the Company moved from a single operating arena in Spain to a dual 
operation in Trinidad and Spain.  In order to ensure maximum attention to the flagship Goudron Field redevelopment, activities 
in Spain were maintained at a constant and largely care and maintenance mode.  Commercial and new business development 
activities, again focusing on Trinidad, were managed in parallel to help build a sustainable platform for production growth.  I am 
pleased to report on the success of those operations and the robust foundations for long-term value creation that have resulted. 
 
A summary of activity in both countries of operation during the reporting period and until the date of this report follows: 
 
TRINIDAD 
 
The Company, through various wholly owned subsidiaries, holds interests in two producing fields; Goudron and Icacos, and in a 
number of private petroleum leases where production has yet to be established.  LGO has also negotiated various agreements 
with third parties to farm-in or otherwise acquire interests in additional properties in Trinidad.     
 
Goudron 
 
On the 19 October 2012 LGO acquired, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Goudron E&P Limited (“GEPL”), the Incremental 
Production Service Contract (“IPSC”) for the Goudron Field in the Eastern Fields Area in south eastern onshore Trinidad.  Under 
the terms of the IPSC the Company acts as a service contractor to the Petroleum Company of Trinidad & Tobago (“Petrotrin”) 
who reimburse LGO on the basis of the oil sales and realised oil price.  On taking over the full-time operation of the contract, 
GEPL immediately commenced a series of well work-overs and reactivations which have continued throughout 2013.  Two work-
over rigs have been continuously deployed at the field since April 2013 working on well reactivations and optimisations. 
 
Oil produced at Goudron is stored in sales tanks before being measured and pumped into the Petrotrin owned pipeline adjacent 
to the field which carries the oil directly to the Pointe-au-Pierre refinery in western Trinidad.  To accommodate rising production 
volumes, a new sales tank was constructed and commissioned in August to allow production of up to 530 barrels of oil per day 
(bopd) to be handled on a weekly basis.  Additional sales tank capacity up to 2,000 barrels has been approved and will be 
installed as needed.  Longer-term the installation of a Lease Automatic Custody Transfer (LACT) meter is planned to handle 
anticipated production from the field.  Oil quality at Goudron is consistently high with an average export density of 
approximately 37 degree API. 
 
A total of 61 wells had been reactivated by end-year, from a total stock estimated to be approximately 90 accessible and 
reusable wells.  New beam pumps, fabricated in China and purchased locally, are being used along with a small number of 
progressive cavity down-hole pumps (PCP) and plunger-lift pumps in order to most efficiently redevelop the field.  Most pumps 
deployed in the field are powered by electricity supplied from the Trinidadian electricity grid.  Electricity distribution is being 
progressively expanded within the field to ensure all major production areas have access to electric power.  Where necessary 
diesel-engine beam pumps are deployed to test wells in remote areas where electrical power is not yet available.  Following the 
reporting period additional wells have been reactivated and production in May 2014 was derived from 67 legacy wells. 
 
In addition to electrical supply, other infrastructure improvements are being made in order to bring the field up to modern 
operational standards.  Security, communications, accommodation, roads and produced water handling facilities have all been 
brought up to date.  The field is located in an area of primary tropical forest which receives higher than average rainfall.  In order 
to prevent problems with electrical outages caused by falling trees a more extensive vegetation cut back has been undertaken.  
The installation of a permanent camp facility equipped with workshops, storage, offices and accommodation was completed in 
early 2014 and at the time of this report dedicated communications had been commissioned providing infield and base radio, 
broadband and voice communications. 
 
In October to mark the anniversary of LGO’s operations at Goudron the Minister of Energy and Energy Affairs, Senator the 
Honourable Kevin Ramnarine, visited the field along with Petrotrin President Khalid Hassanali and His Excellency British High 
Commissioner Arthur Snell and their respective delegations.  At that time Goudron had produced 59,339 barrels of oil and 
operated safely for 69,964 man-hours in the first year of LGO operatorship. 
   Leni Gas and Oil plc    Company Number 05901339 
6 
 
 
 
All the necessary documentation associated with a certificate of environmental compliance (“CEC”) for 30 new infill wells was 
submitted to the Environmental Management Agency and at year-end imminent approval was anticipated.  The final CEC was 
delivered on 13 January 2014.  The sites for the first seven new development wells were selected in the 4
th
 quarter and site 
preparation commenced immediately on receipt of the CEC.  Ground water monitoring wells were installed using an adapted 
work-over rig as a requirement of the CEC and approved by the Water and Sewage Authority prior to the mobilisation of the 
drilling rig. 
 
Drilling rig selection and contract negotiations were completed in early 2014 and the first new development well, designated GY-
664 was spudded on 28 April 2014 using Well Services Rig 20.  The second well, GY-665, was subsequently spudded on 28 May 
2014.   
 
The first well, GY-664, was spudded on 28 April 2014 and reached total depth on 13 May 2014 at a depth of 4,212 feet.  The well 
successfully intersected with the three planned reservoir intervals in the Goudron sandstones of the Mayaro Formation, the 
Gros Morne sandstones of the Moruga Formation and a sandstone in the Lower Cruse Formation.  Full petrophysical log analysis 
was conducted and it was decided to complete the well as a Gros Morne producer over and interval of 278 feet of net oil pay.  
Further intervals of oil pay were identified in the Goudron sandstones totalling 192 feet and a further 87 feet in the Lower Cruse.  
The Goudron sandstones were cased and may be completed for production in this well at a later date.  The Lower Cruse was also 
considered producible, however, flow rates from that interval which was somewhat silty were considered uneconomic at this 
location.  The well was perforated and placed on production on 30 April 2014 at an initial rate of 240 bopd through a 7/32-inch 
choke at a flowing pressure of approximately 660 psi. 
 
The initial flow rate from well GY-664 was some four-times the historic average and exceeded any previous well on the field.  
This strongly supports the Company’s belief that modern drilling and completion practices would greatly enhance the 
production performance of wells in the field.  Modern electric logs and petrophysical analysis are revealing greater amounts of 
net oil sand in the key reservoirs and this is likely to have an impact on oil-in-place estimates.  The Company plans to incorporate 
the results of on-going production and drilling into the various studies prior to commissioning a new Competent Persons Report 
in the 2
nd
 half of 2014. 
 
At the time of writing the second well, GY-665, has reach a TD of 2,750 feet in the base of the Gros Morne sandstone and a 
decision has been taken to complete the well in the Gros Morne without deepening to the Lower Cruse secondary target in this 
well.  Plans to drill to the Lower Cruse will be carried forward to a later well.   GY-665 encountered 270 feet of net oil pay in the 
Goudron sandstones and 256 feet of net oil pay in the Gros Morne, confirmed by petrophysical analysis. 
 
In August, the Company successfully renegotiated commercial terms with Petrotrin for the Goudron Field, which included an 
agreement to reduce the overriding royalties on production paid directly to Petrotrin. In return for the reduced royalty 
payments, LGO undertook to increase the commitment work programme through the drilling of ten additional development 
wells and one exploration well in the Goudron Block.  This work programme, already envisaged in the Company’s business plans, 
will be carried out over the next 6 years to November 2019.  The contract was also modified to clarify the process for extending 
the duration of the IPSC, with terms for an additional 5 year period to 2023 being mutually agreed and further extensions being 
possible.  The new overriding royalty rates are effective from 1 August 2013 and represent a marked increase in cash net-back 
from production.   
 
Cedros Peninsula 
 
Elsewhere in Trinidad, through its local subsidiary Leni Trinidad Limited (“LTL”), LGO holds a 50% interest in the producing Icacos 
Field in the Cedros Peninsula, operated by Territorial Services Group, a subsidiary of Touchstone Exploration.  Territorial have 
carried out two work-overs at the field in 2013, and as a result production has been maintained at similar levels to previous 
years.  LGO is not aware of any plans by the operator to carry out any non-routine activities in the remainder of 2014. 
 
In the wider Cedros Peninsular, LTL holds a number of private petroleum leases totalling about 1,750 acres and is in the process 
of obtaining a private petroleum licence from the Trinidad and Tobago Ministry of Energy and Energy Affairs (MOEEA), in order 
to carry out a number of field surveys with a view to eventually drilling exploration wells.  LGO has also entered into a Letter of 
Intent with Beach Oilfield Limited (“BOLT”) to cross-assign the interests of the two companies within the Cedros Peninsula at 
stratigraphic levels below 7,000 feet.  LTL will be the operator of the combined leases and will hold a 100% working interest, 
with BOLT receiving an overriding royalty on any future production revenues.   
   Leni Gas and Oil plc    Company Number 05901339 
7 
 
 
 
As part of the BOLT agreements LTL has hired Dr Krishna Persad as a consultant on a retainer and has acquired from BOLT all the 
relevant seismic, well and historical report data available in the Cedros area.  The Company has also obtained a licence to the 
legacy 3D seismic survey that covers much of the Cedros Peninsular and has commissioned a soil geochemistry survey to localise 
areas of micro-seepage associated with entrapped oil in the subsurface.  All the available data will be integrated and interpreted 
during 2014 and 1H215 prior to making any decisions on drilling.   
 
Other Trinidad 
 
The Company continues to pursue its strategy of increasing its footprint in Trinidad, and in March signed a heads of agreement 
with Maxim Resources Inc. (Maxim), to collaborate on oil field developments in the South Erin Block.  The agreement envisaged 
that should Maxim be successful in acquiring control of the South Erin Block, LGO will invest in further developing drilling in the 
producing Jasmin Field, and will become field operator and hold at least a 50% working interest.  Subsequent to end-year LGO 
has been advised that Maxim have settled its claim for cash.  The 2013 heads of agreement has now expired. 
 
In the absence of any substantive progress in resolving the underlying land title issues that were found during due diligence in 
the North Moruga leases, and the presence of substantial alternative investment opportunities available to the Company, the 
farm-in to Advance Oil, announced in November 2012 was terminated on 11 November by means of a mutually agreed Deed of 
Termination simultaneously with the effective sunset clause. 
 
After a thorough review of the three blocks announced as part of the onshore lease sale by the MOEEA in the 2013 LGO 
determined not to present a bid for any of the blocks available on the basis of the high cost of commitment work programmes 
and alternative investment priorities in the Company’s portfolio in Trinidad. 
 
In 2013, LGO tendered for a Full Tensor Gravity survey to be flown over the entirety of southern Trinidad to assist in its ongoing 
operations and to look for additional investment opportunities.  After contract negotiations a contract has been signed with 
ARKeX Limited to fly the survey in 2014.  Acquisition costs will be shared with various parties, including Petrotrin, and it is hoped 
that the data wil be available for interpretation by end 2014. 
 
During the reporting period Trinidad oil sales totalled 77,121 barrels (2012: 9,812 barrels).  This sharp rise in production reflects 
a full year or production growth at Goudron compared to only 10 weeks of initial operations in 2012.  Production from the 
Icacos field was essential unchanged year on year. 
 
SPAIN 
 
LGO holds a 100% ownership through its wholly owned subsidiary, Compañia Petrolifera de Sedano (CPS), in one production 
concession, La Lora (which contains the Ayoluengo producing oilfield), and three exploration permits; Basconcillos-H, Huermeces 
and Valderredible, in Northern Spain.  An application for the production of oil from the Hontomin discovery in the Huermeces 
permit has been made and it is hoped that it will be awarded in 2014. 
 
Oil sales during the year were made exclusively to Saint-Gobain Vicasa SA (Saint-Gobain) under the contract renewed in 2012.  
Saint-Gobain uses the Ayoluengo crude oil as fuel oil in their factories within Northern Spain.  Under the terms of the contract 
CPS receives a price linked to Brent with discounts to adjust for the fuel oil grade and impurities.  During June and into July Saint-
Gobain carried out a planned maintenance at their factory installations and during the shutdown LGO stockpiled oil at 
Ayoluengo.  Sales to Saint-Gobain resumed in August and normal stock levels were achieved by October. 
 
During the sales stoppage in June and July CPS, carried out extensive maintenance to the processing facilities; opening and 
cleaning process vessels, and recertifying them.  This work has resulted in improved oil-water separation and reduced impurities  
in the sales oil. As a consequence discussions have been renewed with BP España on trialling Ayoluengo crude through the 
Castellon Refinery as a first step in enacting the sales contract signed with BP in 2011.  Laboratory trials and analysis are on-
going at various laboratories in pursuit of a cost-effective arsenic removal process that would open up the potential for sales to 
BP. 
 
In early 2013 work commenced to install larger pumps in both Ayo-46 and Ayo-37.  Various problems were encountered with 
the Weatherford supplied pumps, which along with delays due to their late delivery by the supplier, lead to complications in 
installing the pumps during the winter weather conditions; low temperatures, snow and high winds, often cause non-production 
related operations to be suspended.  Following various trials, well Ayo-37 was eventually returned to the original pump design.  
Further trials at Ayo-46 have been made without marked improvements in pump efficiency.  As a result a packer has been 
installed in Ayo-46 to reduce water inflow and the well has subsequently seen a return to better production efficiency, although 
the water-cut from this well remains high. 
 
Production decline is now being seen in several key wells in the field and a remedial program of well clean-up involving the 
removal of accumulated scale and wax deposits was started in late 2013 and has continued into 2014.  Treatment of several   Leni Gas and Oil plc    Company Number 05901339 
8 
 
 
 
wells with acid has increased flow rates of oil and in one instance also of gas.  Further ongoing well treatments to improve 
production performance of the Ayoluengo wells are planned for 2014.   
 
During the 1st half of 2014 the Company’s Cardwell work-over rig suffered from several breakdowns that required the 
fabrication of replacement parts and consequently saw the rig out of service for several extended periods.  During periods when 
the rig was unserviceable all well work had to be deferred and there was a consequent reduction in production during those 
periods.  The rig has now been fully repaired and well service work is being performed with the aim of restoring production to 
2013 levels as soon as practical. 
   
Following the cessation of possible asset sale discussions in late 2012 LGO has held discussions with several parties who have 
expressed an interest in partnering with CPS in further field development at Ayoluengo.  At the end of 2013 the Company was in 
detailed discussions with three separate groups and subsequently signed a non-binding heads of terms with Pansoinco s.r.l in 
March 2014.  That arrangement was subsequently terminated in June 2014 when a reassessment of the value of the Spanish 
portfolio was made following early successes in the Goudron redevelopment in Trinidad and a new prediction of free cash flow 
showed that greater value could be generated from Spain through investment in the period 2016 to 2020.   
 
As previously stated, the most likely investment scenario for the Ayoluengo field is the drilling of a small number of side-track 
wells from the existing producing wells along the crest of the structure to access oil in zones that are known to be oil bearing, 
but from which oil is not believed to have been recovered to date.  This investment remains conditional on further details 
studies and on the granting of a 10 year extension of the La Lora Concession from January 2017.  Work started in mid-2013 to 
prepare the licence extension application which is expected to be lodged with the Spanish administration in the 3
rd
 quarter 
2014. 
    
In the Huermeces licence, the Company’s application for the conversion of the Exploration Licence to a Production Concession 
remained under consideration with the Spanish authorities.  In early 2014 the Ministry of Industry indicated that it was 
favourably considering the Concession application and as a final step requested a geological report be submitted.  That technical 
report, written by an independent consultancy in Spain for CPS, was submitted in May 2014 and at the time of this report we are 
awaiting final award of the Hontomin Concession. 
 
There has been no work undertaken in the Basconcillos-H licence area where the Tozo-1 gas well is located.  This project is 
dormant pending further studies of potential uses of the gas discovered in Tozo.  A licence extension in the Valderredible licence 
is also pending approval.  It has so far proved difficult to operate in a large part of the licences due to environmental restrictions 
within the National Park which covers much of the area.  CPS’s permits and concessions lie within the central portion of the 
Sedano trough within the Cantabrian Basin which is believed to have unconventional gas potential at depth.  LGO considers that 
shale gas potential represents additional long-term potential value and plans to acquire further regional studies in 2014 to 
assess the scale of the potential. 
 
During the reporting period Spanish sales totalled 34,653 barrels oil (2012: 46,830 barrels) exclusively from the Ayoluengo Field.   
 
OTHER 
 
In January LGO issued proceedings against Mediterranean Oil and Gas plc (MOG) in the High Court of England and Wales alleging 
misrepresentation at the time of the sale of the Company’s 10% interest in the Area 4 Petroleum Sharing Contract in Malta.  In a 
Case Management Conference before Justice Clarke in May the Court refused MOG’s application for security over costs in the 
action and ordered MOG to pay LGO’s costs in defending that application.  The Court also ordered disclosure of relevant 
documents and set a timetable to trial in March 2014.  LGO and its legal team prepared for trial through 2013 and into 1
st
 
quarter 2014.  The trial was held before Justice Males between the 4
th
 and 12
th
 March.  Mr. Justice Males did not uphold LGO’s 
claim against MOG and subsequently awarded costs in the action against the claimant.  After taking further independent legal 
advice LGO decided not to lodge an appeal in the Court of Appeal.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The past year has seen a major shift in the Company’s operations and new business development focus to Trinidad.  A vast 
amount of preparatory work has been undertaken in the Goudron Field for the commencement of the drilling which marks the 
commencement of the redevelopment phase in 2014.  All the Company’s operations have been carried out without major 
incident and the Corporate Health Safety and Environment record has been enhanced significantly despite a rapid increase in 
remote operations in Trinidad.  I am delighted with the platform for future value that has now been created and the results in  
2014 will I am sure amply demonstrate the confidence the Board have shown in our decision to focus on brown-field 
redevelopment opportunities in Trinidad. 
 
   Leni Gas and Oil plc    Company Number 05901339 
9 
 
 
I would like to thank our staff in London, Spain and Trinidad for their dedication and hard work during this period of rapid 
change and growth in our production operations.   
 
 
 
Neil Ritson  
Chief Executive Officer 
12 June 2013 
 
 
Competent Person's statement:  
The information contained in this document has been reviewed and approved by Neil Ritson, Executive Director for Leni Gas & 
Oil Plc.  Mr Ritson is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers, a Fellow of the Geological Society and an Active Member 
of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists.  Mr Ritson has over 35 years of relevant experience in the oil industry. 
 
GLOSSARY & NOTES 
 
3D = three-dimensional 
AIM = London Stock Exchange Alternative Investment Market 
bbls = barrels (equivalent to 45 US gallons) 
bcf = billion cubic feet 
boe = barrels of oil equivalent calculated on the basis of six thousand cubic feet of gas equals one barrel of oil 
boepd = boe per day 
bbls = barrels of oil 
bopd = barrels of oil per day 
 
EOR = enhanced oil recovery 
m = thousand 
mm = million 
mmbbls = million barrels of oil 
mscf = thousand standard cubic feet of gas 
PSC = Production Sharing Contract 
TD = total depth 
 
contingent 
resources 
 
those quantities of petroleum estimated, as of a given date, to be potentially recoverable from known 
accumulations, but the applied project(s) are not yet considered mature enough for commercial 
development due to one or more contingencies. Contingent Resources may include, for example, projects 
for which there are currently no viable markets, or where commercial recovery is dependent on technology 
under development, or where evaluation of the accumulation is insufficient to clearly assess commerciality 
 
oil-in-place 
 
the volume of oil estimated to have been initially in place 
 
possible reserves 
 
those additional reserves which analysis of geoscience and engineering data suggest are less likely to be 
recoverable than Probable Reserves. The total quantities ultimately recovered from the project have a low 
probability to exceed the sum of Proved plus Probable plus Possible (3P) Reserves, which is equivalent to 
the high estimate scenario 
 
probable reserves 
 
those additional reserves which analysis of geoscience and engineering data indicate are less likely to be 
recovered than Proved Reserves but more certain to be recovered than Possible Reserves. It is equally 
likely that actual remaining quantities recovered will be greater than or less than the sum of the estimated 
Proved plus Probable Reserves  
 
proven reserves 
 
those quantities of petroleum, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated 
with reasonable certainty to be commercially recoverable, from a given date forward, from known 
reservoirs and under defined economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations 
 
 
The estimates provide in this report are based on the Petroleum Resources Management System (“PRMS”) published by the 
Society of Petroleum Engineers (“SPE”) and are reported consistent with the SPE’s 2011 guidelines.  A copy of the PRMS is 
available at http://www.spe.org/industry/reserves.php. All definitions used in this report have the meaning given to them in the 
PRMS. Specifically: 
 
