 Leni Gas and Oil plc    Company Number 05901339 
4 
 
 
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 
 
The transformation of the Company has progressed rapidly in 2013 with an increased focus on the Group’s assets in Trinidad 
and especially production growth in the flagship Goudron Field redevelopment project.  As a consequence Group production 
reached 500 barrel of oil per day for the first time and is firmly expected to reach new highs in succeeding years as the output 
from Trinidad continues to rise. 
 
At Goudron our Phase 1 work, involving the reactivation of a large number of dormant legacy wells, progressed rapidly and by 
the end of the year, the Company had 61 wells on production.  When the Trinidad Minister of Energy, the Honourable Senator 
Kevin Ramnarine, visited the field at our first anniversary of operations in October the field had produced 59,339  barrels of oil in 
69,964 accident free man-hours. Phase 1 was complemented by an active program of infrastructure repair and replacement, 
which saw the doubling of sales tank capacity, the extending of the power grid throughout the field, repair of roads and bridges, 
and the reactivation of a pre-existing tank battery to handle oil and water separation.   
 
In 2014 this infrastructure work was completed with the building of a permanent office, workshop and accommodation building 
and the completion of a new communications infrastructure, both in the field and to connect the field externally.  This work was 
all in place for the drilling campaign, Phase 2, which commenced in April 2014 with the mobilisation of Well Services Rig 20 to 
drill the first seven of the planned 30 new development wells. 
 
At year end the Company was awaiting the necessary Certificate of Environmental Compliance (CEC) for its Phase 2 drilling 
program and for the further expansion of the sales tank capacity.  The CEC was subsequently granted in early January 2014 
allowing Phase 2 to commence. 
 
The Goudron Field has independently certified original proven and probably oil-in-place of 126.7 million barrels (mmbbls), of 
which less than 5 million barrels have been recovered to date through the previous development activities.  This represents a 
very substantial resource base for the Company to access.  It is anticipated that the Phase 1 activity will recover a further 1 
mmbbls whilst the Phase 2 drilling is intended to access between 6 and 20 mmbbls of additional reserves.  The Company 
envisages Phase 3 will be a secondary recovery water-flood project with the aim of recovering up to 60 mmbbls of contingent 
resources.  There is a wealth of possibility available to LGO within this asset alone. 
 
Elsewhere in Trinidad, the Company continued to expand its opportunity set in order to create medium and long term value.  An 
agreement was reached with Beach Oilfield Ltd to cross assign interests in the Cedros such that LGO gains access to over 7,500 
gross acres of underexplored leases. Discussions continued with Maxim Resources and Advance Oil on arrangements struck 
earlier, and additional opportunities were evaluated.  LGO also forwarded its Private Petroleum Licence (“PPL”) application for 
100% owned leases in Cedros to the Ministry of Energy and Energy Affairs for consideration. The Icacos Field (LGO 50%) 
continued to be produced by the operator and a joint application for a new PPL was prepared.  
 
So as to maintain the principle focus on Trinidad the Spanish assets were moved to a care and maintenance operation for the 
bulk of the year, however, they have remained profitable and as we reached the end of the year we invited the industry to again 
consider partnership arrangements for the long term redevelopment of the Ayoluengo Field and the development of Hontomin 
Field when a Production Concession is granted.   
 
During 2013 the management prepared to defend shareholders’ interests through a High Court action against its former 
operator and partner in Malta concerning the sale of the Company’s 10% stake in the venture.  At the subsequent trial in March 
2014 the Commercial Court Judge did not find sufficient grounds to uphold the Company’s claim.  
 
The Board are extremely pleased with what has been achieved in a busy year and delighted with the platform for growth that 
has been created for the future within the Company.  I would like to thank the management, staff and shareholders for their 
support as the transformation of the Company has progressed significantly during the year. 
 
 
 
 
David Lenigas 
Executive Chairman 
12 June 2014 
  
