 4 LGO Energy plc Report and Accounts 2014
Chief Executive’s Review
Lgo energy plc (“Lgo”) continues its strategy of identifying, acquiring 
and developing assets within the oil and gas sector that provide the 
opportunity to unlock significant value through our combination of 
financial, commercial, and technical expertise.
the Company operates a low risk portfolio of production assets 
in trinidad and Spain, with significant production and reserves 
upside using similar operating approaches and proven production 
enhancement techniques. Lgo has specifically targeted onshore 
assets with low cost near term production upside and follow-on 
exploitation potential.
During 2014, as in 2013, the operational management of Lgo 
concentrated primarily on advancing the field development operations 
in trinidad. this involved drilling the first operated well in Lgo’s 
history, followed by seven additional successful wells, revolutionising 
the Company’s capability and production potential. organisational 
capability was built throughout 2014 and continues in 2015, with 
the completion of a new organisational structure and an enhanced 
technical team based in the Company’s head offices in London. 
to allow the Company to focus on our flagship goudron field 
development, activities in Spain were again managed in a care and 
maintenance mode. the emphasis in the ayoleungo field was on 
production efficiency and safety, with parallel activity in madrid and 
London focussed on the technical, legal and commercial analysis 
required for the La Lora Concession renewal application that will be 
lodged with the Spanish authorities in 2015.
Commercial and new business development activities in trinidad  were 
focused on building a sustainable platform for future production growth 
at goudron and on other assets. Whilst the severe dip in oil prices in 
the second half of the year negatively affected our portfolio building 
activities, we intend to invigorate this initiative in 2015. By maintaining 
low operating overheads and managing the assets for value, Lgo has 
a robust economic platform for growth even at reduced oil prices.
the health, safety and environmental (“HSe”) performance was 
generally good, although there were two minor lost time accidents on 
the goudron field during the year. the significant increase in activity and 
man-hours worked was matched with an increase in HSe professionals 
within the team and every effort is being taken to eliminate all lost 
time incidents. gePL has instigated the trinidad energy Chambers’ 
StoW system and is due to be awarded its initial certification in 2015. 
During the year there were no reportable environmental incidents and 
further remediation work at goudron and ayoluengo was continued 
to resolve pre-existing environmental issues inherited from previous 
operators. Lgo employs the strictest environmental standards within 
its operations reflecting our commitment to minimising the impacts in 
the fragile environments where we operate.
Trinidad & Tobago
the Company, through various wholly owned subsidiaries, holds 
interests in two producing fields, goudron and icacos, and in a 
number of private petroleum leases where production has yet to be 
established. Lgo has also negotiated various agreements with third 
parties to farm-in or otherwise acquire interests in additional properties 
in trinidad. trinidad is the strategic focus of the Company’s activities 
and represents the bulk of near-term growth and significant long-term 
growth potential both within existing assets and in additional assets 
acquired through third-party arrangements or directly from the State.
Goudron
Lgo acquired the rights to the goudron field, the incremental 
Production Service Contract (“iPSC”), through its wholly owned 
subsidiary, goudron e&P Limited (“gePL”), in october 2012. the 
goudron field lies in the eastern fields area in south eastern 
onshore trinidad. under the terms of the iPSC the Company acts as 
a service contractor to the Petroleum Company of trinidad & tobago 
(“Petrotrin”) who reimburse Lgo on the basis of the oil sales and 
realised oil price. 
on taking over the full-time operation of the contract, gePL carried 
out a series of well work-overs and reactivations which continued in 
2013 and into 2014. Since april 2013, two work-over rigs have been 
deployed at the field carrying out well reactivations and optimisations. 
in april 2014 drilling operations on new development wells, specifically 
targeting the under exploited C-sand formation, were commenced, 
and by the end of the year eight new wells had been successfully 
drilled. a total of 28,754 feet of new drilling was carried out and all 
eight wells were completed as C-sand production wells. the overlying 
goudron Sandstone formation was found to be oil bearing in all eight 
wells and the wells may be recompleted for production at that level at 
a later date.
the goudron field is located in an area of primary tropical forest which 
receives higher than average rainfall. as in previous years, gePL has 
maintained and expanded the basic infrastructure of the field, repairing 
roads and bridges, extending the electrical supply, and making other 
infrastructure improvements necessary to meet or exceed modern 
operational standards. to reduce outages due to breaks in the power 
transmission system, gePL has installed additional generators on 
critical systems, such as export pumps, and continues to improve the 
safety and environmental protection through improvements in water 
treatment and fire suppression.
oil produced at goudron is stored in sales tanks before being 
measured and pumped into the Petrotrin owned pipeline adjacent to 
the field which carries the oil directly to the Pointe-au-Pierre refinery 
in western trinidad. to accommodate the rising production volumes, 
a new 2,000 barrel sales tank was constructed and commissioned in 
october. Longer-term the installation of a Lease automatic Custody 
transfer (“LaCt”) meter is planned to handle anticipated production 
from the field. Petrotrin has also agreed to construct a larger export 
pipeline between the goudron Sales Battery #134 and the refinery 
pipeline. the current 2 7/8-inch line will be twinned with a 4 1/2-inch 
oD line. oil quality at goudron is consistently high with an average 
export density of approximately 37 degree aPi. LGO Energy plc Report and Accounts 2014 5
Drilling rig selection and contract negotiations were completed in 
early 2014 and the first new development well, designated gY-664 was 
spudded on 28 april 2014 using Well Services rig 20.  this rig was 
used for the complete eight well programme and was demobilised at 
the end of 2014. the smaller Well Services rig 70 will be used for the 
2015 drilling campaign which commenced with well gY-672 on 14 april 
2015.
gY-664 reached total depth of 4,212 feet on 13 may 2014. the well 
successfully intersected with the three planned reservoir intervals in 
the goudron sandstones of the mayaro formation, the gros morne 
sandstones of the moruga formation and a sandstone in the Lower 
Cruse formation. the Pre-mayaro sandstones are collectively termed 
the C-sands by the Company. full petrophysical log analysis was 
conducted and the well was completed as a gros morne producer over 
an interval of 278 feet of net oil pay. further intervals of oil pay were 
identified in the goudron sandstones totalling 192 feet and a further 
87 feet in the Lower Cruse. 
the initial flow rate from well gY-664, at 240 bopd, was some four-
times higher than the historic average and exceeded any previous 
well on the field. this strongly supported the Company’s belief that 
modern drilling and completion practices would greatly enhance the 
production performance of wells in the field. modern electric logs 
and petrophysical analysis revealed greater amounts of net oil sand 
in the key reservoirs and allowed the more accurate targeting of the 
perforations to maximise oil production potential. 
With the evident success of gY-664, rig 20 was moved to the second 
drill pad where it drilled four further wells to C-sand targets. Wells gY-
665 to gY-668 were drilled between 27 may and 27 august and placed 
on production during September once the rig had been moved to the 
next drill pad. Drilling then continued with wells gY-669 to gY-671 on 
a third drill pad. those wells were drilled between 5 october and 6 
December. Production from gY-670 and gY-671 commenced in late 
2014, and gY-669 was placed on production in January 2015. relevant 
data on the drilling of these wells is provided in table 1 below.
During the eight well drilling campaign close attention was paid 
to improvements in the drilling technique and adapting the 
drilling programme to local conditions and equipment. Not all the 
improvements could be realised during the 2014 campaign and as 
a consequence a completely redesigned well construction plan was 
developed for future drilling. various improvements in technique, 
including using measurement and logging while drilling, and deploying 
an intermediate casing string to ensure full pressure isolation of gas 
sands in the upper pre-mayaro sequence were trialled in the 2014 
programme and have been fully implemented in the 2015 drilling 
campaign. Well gY-672 was drilled between 14 april and 28 april 2015, 
in a significantly reduced time.
Data from the new wells, along with data from the reactivated 
and legacy wells, was analysed by Senergy in order to construct a 
comprehensive new geological (“static”) model of the field. that 
model was completed in November and has subsequently been used 
in siting the planned 2015 wells and planning further the development 
of the field. following an initial review of the static model and the 
well production histories which was carried out in early 2015, Lgo 
concluded that a new field development plan (“fDP”) was required to 
properly incorporate the results of the successful 2014 drilling program 
and that a new reserves estimate and Competent Persons report 
(“CPr”) should be deferred until a new fDP had been constructed. it is 
now anticipated that the CPr will be published in mid 2015.
During 2014, production from the legacy recompleted wells was 
maintained with base production declining slightly from a first quarter 
average of 267 bopd to a fourth quarter average of 232 bopd.  additional 
capacity is believed to exist within these wells and a programme of 
at least 12 recompletions, re-perforation and the addition of new 
perforations, is underway in 2015 to realise that potential. 
Production from the newly drilled wells is achieved at the end of drilling 
on each pad; it is currently not possible to simultaneously drill and 
produce from wells on the same pad and as a consequence there is a 
delay between drilling and production start-up. efforts are continuing 
to minimise or eliminate this delay. the first new well gY-664 came on 
production on 23 may and the last well drilled in 2014 was brought on 
production on 29 January 2015. this led to a production ramp-up from 
261 bopd average in april 2014 to 1,557 bopd average in December 
Table 1: Goudron 2014 Development Wells
Well Name
Spud 
Date
t otal Depth
(mD feet)
Date t otal
Depth reached
Date Placed
on Production
1 gY-664 28 april 4212 13 may 30 may
2 gY-665 27 may 2750 8 June 15 September
3 gY-666 16 June 3357 1 July 19 September
4 gY-667 10 July 4006 30 July 26 September
5 gY-668 9 august 3026 27 august 24 September
6 gY-669 5 october 3505 24 october 23 January (2015)
7 gY-670 28 october 4300 9 November 12 December
8 gY-671 19 November 3598 6 December 17 December
all depths are quoted as measured depth (mD) in feet below Kelly bushing 6 LGO Energy plc Report and Accounts 2014
Chief Executive’s Review 
continued
2014. a similar ramp-up will occur in 2015 as new wells are brought on 
to production though this will be tempered by the underlying decline 
of existing wells. 
Well gY-670 was placed on production in late December and was 
initially flowed at a rate in excess of 1,000 bopd and represented one of 
the best new wells drilled onshore in trinidad in the last three decades.
Lgo has adopted a conservative reservoir management strategy 
with the new producing wells. the wells are produced via a restricted 
choke at stable constrained production rates, increasing the choke size 
progressively over time to maintain that stable production rate where 
possible. once pressure in the well declines to zero (i.e. on an open 
choke) wells will be recompleted with conventional pumps to continue 
production. given the very limited production history in the field using 
modern well construction completion techniques and management 
practices, it is not yet possible to accurately forecast reliable decline 
rates per well or to accurately estimate plateau periods. However it 
is clear that the wells with the greatest gas production; gY-669 and 
gY-670, have the highest depletion rates and the wells with the lowest 
gas production; gY-664 and gY-665, have the lowest depletion rates.
as part of the 2015 drilling campaign gePL will be collecting additional 
data on the C-sand reservoirs, including downhole fluid samples and 
full hole cores, which will be deployed in additional field studies, in 
part to support the next phase of goudron development. that next 
phase of development is strongly indicated to involve water or water-
alternating-gas enhanced oil recovery (“eor”). it is too early to predict 
when an eor scheme could be initiated in the field, however, early 
action on this is thought to offer significant economic benefits.
Cedros Peninsula
elsewhere in trinidad, through its local subsidiary Leni trinidad 
Limited (“LtL”), Lgo holds a 50% interest in the producing icacos oil 
field in the Cedros Peninsula, operated by territorial Services group, a 
subsidiary of touchstone exploration. Production has been maintained 
at similar levels to previous years, roughly 35 bopd gross. routine 
maintenance is planned as necessary for 2015 and the field, which is 
currently subject to an application to the trinidad and tobago ministry 
of energy and energy affairs (“moeea”) for a new private petroleum 
licence (“PPL”), may be a target for additional activity following receipt 
of the PPL.
in the wider Cedros Peninsular, Lgo holds a number of 100% owned 
private petroleum leases totalling about 1,750 acres and is in the 
process of obtaining a private petroleum licence from the moeea in 
order to carry out a number of field surveys with a view to eventually 
drilling exploration wells. Lgo has also entered into a Letter of intent 
with Beach oilfield Limited (“BoLt”) to cross-assign the interests of 
the two companies within the Cedros Peninsula at stratigraphic levels 
below 7,000 feet. LtL will be the operator of the combined leases and 
will hold a 100% working interest, with BoLt receiving an overriding 
royalty on any future production revenues. During 2014 progress was 
made on bringing this arrangement into effect and several deposit 
payments were made to BoLt in the form of Lgo shares to maintain 
exclusivity on the prospects whilst administrative arrangements were 
finalised. the share payments are refundable with a long-stop date of 
30 September 2015 for completion of the necessary lease and licence 
assignments. on completion of this transaction LtL will hold interests 
in over 10,900 acres of petroleum leases in the Cedros Peninsula.
During 2014 a surface soil geochemistry survey was conducted in 
collaboration with BoLt over the entirety of the Cedros peninsula with 
soil from a total of 400 sample points being collected for analysis. the 
results of the laboratory analyses from that survey were available early in 
2015 and are undergoing detailed interpretation, and integration with 
the seismic and well data. a significant number of surface anomalies 
have been seen, some associated with known oil accumulations and 
others that may indicate the presence of prospects for undiscovered 
oil and gas. initial findings from this work will be internally published in 
may 2015 with further results being available later in the year.
in 2013, Lgo tendered for a full tensor gravity survey to be flown over 
the entirety of southern trinidad to assist in its ongoing operations 
in Cedros and goudron, and to look for additional investment 
opportunities. a contract was signed with arKex Limited (“arKex”) 
to fly the survey in late 2014. after discussions with the moeea it was 
determined that a multi-client survey sponsored by the moeea would 
facilitate the survey being acquired and consequently LtL became a 
licensee of the data along with Petrotrin. Lgo, through its wholly owned 
subsidy Columbus energy Services Limited (“CeSL”), provided both 
logistic and financial assistance to arKex in order that the survey could 
be acquired prior to receiving additional commitments from potential 
additional licensees. the aircraft arrived in trinidad in early January 
2015 and at the time of writing the 5,700 square kilometre survey was 
being processed by arKex at their head offices in Cambridge, uK. 
once initial processing has been completed additional interpretation 
will be undertaken, integrating the airborne gravity and magnetic field 
readings with other relevant data. initial indications of data quality 
and utility are good and the part-processed data has already been of 
assistance to gePL in the goudron field where there is no available 
seismic data.
Other Trinidad
the Company continues to pursue its strategy of increasing its footprint 
in trinidad, and as a consequence has held commercial discussions 
with a number of parties with a view to acquiring, through acquisition 
or farm-in, additional field development opportunities.
in its pursuit of additional opportunities to develop under exploited 
oil and gas reserves, Lgo made a commercial offer to the owners of 
the trinity-innis iPSC contract area with a view to acquiring the iPSC. 
after protracted due diligence and a marked fall in the oil price Lgo 
revised its offer and at the time of writing, commercial negotiations 
have not been concluded. Lgo also reached agreement to acquire the 
tabaquite Licence, however, at the time of writing this transaction has 
also not been completed. 
various discussions and reviews of assets have been conducted that 
lead Lgo to remain confident that there are numerous high value  LGO Energy plc Report and Accounts 2014 7
opportunities outside our core areas of goudron and the Cedros 
Peninsula, and the Company will continue to evaluate the most 
appropriate opportunities and means of entry.
Lgo, through its local service company CeSL, acquired a work-over 
rig in early 2015 to ensure that sufficient capacity is available for any 
field activities at goudron or elsewhere. the rig can also be deployed 
in third-party work and represents an investment in capacity and 
flexibility for the future.
During the reporting period trinidad oil sales totalled 172,220  barrels 
(2013: 77,121 barrels). Production from the icacos field was essentially 
unchanged year on year, with the increase in oil production and sales 
being derived exclusively from the goudron field.
Spain
Lgo holds 100% ownership through its wholly owned subsidiary, 
Compañia Petrolifera de Sedano (“CPS”), in the La Lora Production 
Concession (“La Lora”) (which contains the ayoluengo producing 
oilfield), and three exploration permits; Basconcillos-H, Huermeces and 
valderredible, in Northern Spain. an application for the production of 
oil from the Hontomin discovery in the Huermeces permit has been 
made and is pending award. the La Lora concession expires in January 
2017 after which, so long as the field is still producing and certain other 
conditions are met, we expect that the concession can be renewed for 
one, or perhaps two, further 10-year periods. the management remains 
confident that those conditions will be met and that an extension will 
be granted.
oil sales during the year were again made exclusively to Saint-gobain 
vicasa Sa (“Saint-gobain”) under the contract renewed in 2012. Saint-
gobain uses the ayoluengo crude oil as fuel oil in their factories within 
Northern Spain. under the terms of the contract CPS receives a price 
linked to Brent with discounts to adjust for the fuel oil grade and 
chemistry. 
a regular well intervention programme using a combination of hot 
oil, xylene and acid has seen good results in maintaining production 
despite the age and condition of many of the active wells. action 
has been taken to reactivate a number of dormant wells through 
mechanical as well as chemical means. these interventions, using the 
Company owned Cardwell work-over rig, will be continued in 2015 so 
as to gain maximum production whilst limiting operating costs.
the most likely investment scenario for the ayoluengo field is 
the drilling of a small number of side-track wells from the existing 
producing wells along the crest of the structure to access oil in zones 
that are known to be oil bearing, but from which oil is not believed 
to have been recovered to date. this investment remains conditional 
on further detailed studies and on the granting of at least a 10-year 
extension of La Lora from January 2017. Work started in mid-2013 to 
prepare the licence extension application which is expected to be 
lodged with the Spanish administration in mid-2015. extensive studies, 
technical, legal and commercial have been undertaken, and the 
Company remains confident that the economic life of the field can be 
significantly extended in the right concession framework.
in the Huermeces licence, the Company’s application for the conversion 
of the exploration Licence to a Production Concession remained under 
consideration with the Spanish authorities. in early 2014 the ministry of 
industry indicated that it was favourably considering the Concession 
application and as a final step requested a geological report be 
submitted. that technical report, prepared by an independent 
consultancy in Spain for CPS, was submitted in may 2014. a further 
round of clarification has been held up due to difficulty in providing 
a legal framework for CPS to access certain relevant data acquired 
previously in the area of Hontomin by a Spanish State entity, and at 
the time of this report we are awaiting final award of the Concession.
there has been no work undertaken in the Basconcillos-H licence area 
where the tozo-1 gas well is located. this project is dormant pending 
further studies of potential uses of the gas discovered in tozo. an 
extension to the valderredible licence is also pending approval. it has 
so far proved difficult to operate in a large part of the licences due to 
environmental restrictions within the National Park which covers much 
of the area. CPS’s permits and concessions lie within the central portion 
of the Sedano trough within the Cantabrian Basin which is believed 
may have unconventional gas potential at depth. Lgo considers that 
shale gas potential may represent additional long-term value and has 
acquired further regional studies in 2014 to assess the scale of that 
potential. 
During the reporting period Spanish sales totalled 31,492 barrels oil 
(2013: 34,653 barrels) exclusively from the ayoluengo field. 
Other
in January 2013 Lgo issued proceedings against mediterranean oil 
and gas plc (mog) in the High Court of england and Wales alleging 
misrepresentation at the time of the sale of the Company’s 10% 
interest in the area 4 Petroleum Sharing Contract in malta. in a Case 
management Conference before Justice Clarke in may 2013, the 
Court refused mog’s application for security over costs in the action 
and ordered mog to pay Lgo’s costs in defending that application. 
the Court also ordered disclosure of relevant documents and set a 
timetable to trial in march 2014. Lgo and its legal team prepared for 
trial through 2013 and into 1st quarter 2014. the trial was held before 
Justice males between the 4th and 12th march 2014. mr. Justice 
males did not uphold Lgo’s claim against mog and subsequently 
awarded costs in the action against the claimant. after taking further 
independent legal advice Lgo decided not to lodge an appeal in the 
Court of appeal. 
Conclusion
the past year was an active one, operationally and corporately, as the 
Company successfully drilled eight new development wells at goudron, 
the first operated wells in the Company’s history, and simultaneously 
built a stronger corporate platform for long term growth. the success 
of the drilling at goudron and the production capacity that generated 
has also increased the confidence of the organisation to plan a larger, 
longer-term, development at goudron and to put debt funding 
arrangements in place with a major energy lending institution, BNP 
Paribas. By maintaining focus on the quality of our operations and  8 LGO Energy plc Report and Accounts 2014
Chief Executive's Review 
continued
their costs we have a solid foundation for growth that is robust to the 
downturn in commodity prices that we have experienced in the recent 
past. along with the closing of the BNP Paribas debt in early 2015 the 
Company has also moved to new premises and enlarged its technical 
team in London so as to better manage the overseas operations of the 
Company and provide in-house technical capability that was previously 
outsourced to external consultants.
in august David Lenigas, the Chairman and founder, retired from the 
Board and was replaced as Chairman by Steve Horton. my existing 
colleagues James thadchanamoorthy and fergus Jenkins joined the 
Board in executive capacities and iain Patrick and michael Douglas 
joined as Non-executive Directors, with responsibilities respectively 
for the audit and remuneration committees. to further reflect the 
development and growing maturity of the Company, it was renamed 
Lgo energy plc.
Lgo has faced many challenges, to grow in a market which has been 
contracting and where revenues have been under severe pressure 
due to the commodity price collapse. However, the Lgo team have 
responded outstandingly well to these challenges and we have 
delivered significant, countercyclical, growth in production, revenue 
and gross profit. i am sure that 2015 will be yet another challenging 
year, however, i am confident that the management and staff of the 
Company will be equal to those challenges and the Company will 
continue to perform well in the coming years.
Neil Ritson  
Chief executive officer
1 June 2015
Competent Person’s statement: 
the information contained in this document has been reviewed and 
approved by Neil ritson, executive Director for Lgo energy plc. mr 
ritson is a member of the Society of Petroleum engineers, a fellow 
of the geological Society and an active member of the american 
association of Petroleum geologists. mr ritson has over 35 years of 
relevant experience in the oil industry.
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
2014 2013 2012
7.3
3.6
0.1
Goudron Revenues (£m)
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
2014 2013
2012
2.4
0.42
(0.24)
Goudron Gross Profit (£m)
