 2 LGO Energy plc Report and Accounts 2014
Chairman’s Statement
Welcome to Lgo energy plc’s annual report for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2014. in my first report as Chairman, i am 
delighted to report on the Company’s excellent performance in 
2014. Lgo energy has matured as an oil developer and producer, 
and despite the turbulent commodity markets we are currently 
experiencing, the Company has performed strongly and is well 
placed for future growth. 
at the beginning of 2014, production from our core assets in 
trinidad and Spain totalled approximately 400 barrels of oil per 
day (bopd) and, though we had intervened in or worked over and 
reactivated more than 80 wells in our two main fields, the Company 
had never drilled a new well as operator. By the end of the year we 
had achieved production levels in excess of 2,000 bopd, safely and 
successfully drilling eight development wells in the goudron field in 
trinidad. these two achievements demonstrate the growing technical 
capabilities of the Lgo team allowing the Company to deliver on 
its strategy. my confidence in our team and assets has subsequently 
been independently recognised through the completion of a uS$25 
million debt facility agreed with BNP Paribas in early 2015. We have 
drawn uS$12 million from the facility for the seven development well 
campaign now underway in goudron, and depending on the results of 
that programme, we expect to be well placed to move to a continuous, 
self-funded programme thereafter.
as a result of increased production in 2014, our gross revenues from 
operations rose by over 50 per cent and gross profits are up over 150 
per cent year on year. the marked decline in oil prices in the fourth 
quarter has obviously impacted oil sales receipts, however, Lgo 
energy is fundamentally a low cost operator. in addition, our main 
operations in trinidad function under a progressive tax and royalty 
regime such that our activities remain profitable and are insulated from 
the worst impacts of the volatile commodity market.
the Company’s Health, Safety and environmental performance 
has generally been good and we remain committed to achieving 
zero impacts in all our operations. incidents were reported and fully 
investigated and the lessons learnt were immediately implemented to 
improve the business. the energy Chamber in trinidad has recently 
recommended our operations at goudron for Safe to Work (StoW) 
certification. 
Drilling at goudron started in april last year and was designed to test 
the potential of the core area of the field at the underexploited C-sand 
level. By December eight wells had been drilled to C-sand level and 
by year end, seven had been placed on production, with the last well 
being completed as an oil producer in January 2015. the seventh well, 
gY-670, had an initial start-up flowrate constrained through a choke 
of over 1,000 bopd, and was independently reported to be trinidad’s 
best performing new onshore well for over 20 years.
the drilling programme allowed us to further develop our knowledge 
and skills, by applying innovative drilling and completion techniques 
to optimise drilling performance. i am pleased to report that we 
delivered significant drilling performance improvement throughout 
the campaign. the combination of attention to detail, casing and 
drilling mud design, modern electric logs and advanced perforating 
techniques allowed Lgo energy to surpass all previous drilling and 
production performance achieved from goudron, and demonstrated 
the underlying potential of the field. this proven approach will be 
continued in 2015, with drilling having recommenced in april again 
targeting the C-sand.
During the year we also worked on several opportunities to expand 
our portfolio in trinidad, looking at a number of potential acquisitions, 
although none of these led to transactions which were concluded in 
2014. We remain convinced that trinidad, with its long history of oil 
and gas operations, is rich in field redevelopment opportunities. the 
expertise that we have developed and demonstrated differentiates 
Lgo energy from our competitors. as oil price forecasts stabilise, we 
anticipate further discussions with the various sellers. Nevertheless, our 
focus will remain on capitalising on the excellent opportunities that 
have now been identified across the goudron field, and given our 
success to date, we believe that progress on building a larger footprint 
in trinidad is not essential in the short term to achieve our targeted 
growth.
0
50,000
100,000
150,000
200,000
250,000
2014 2013 2012 2011
203,712
111,774
58,450
64,650
Group Sales (Barrels) 
0
50
100
150
200
167,432
72,439
4,194
2014 2013 2012
Goudron Sales (Barrels)  LGO Energy plc Report and Accounts 2014 3
in Spain, we have continued to manage operating costs and optimise 
production in the ayoluengo field, as we prepare our submission for 
the planned extension of the La Lora Concession. We hope to obtain a 
minimum of a 10-year extension to La Lora Concession, and once that 
has been achieved, we will be able to invest for the future. We know 
there is additional oil to recover at ayoluengo, from developed horizons 
using modern drilling and completions technologies, and potentially 
from new target horizons. When we are confident that the investment 
can be economically recovered over the life of the concession, we will 
increase our focus on redevelopment, including future drilling. in the 
interim, safe operations have been maintained and a programme of 
work-overs and well reactivations has been pursued that will allow the 
Company to continue to operate effectively whilst the application for 
an extension is considered by the Spanish authorities.
in recognition of the growing maturity and value of the Company, 
and in order to meet future demands, the Board of Directors was 
expanded in 2014 through the appointment of two new Non-executive 
Directors and the appointment of both the Cfo and Coo to the 
Board. David Lenigas, the Company’s founder, retired from the Board 
in august and the Company’s name was changed from Leni gas and 
oil plc to Lgo energy plc at that time. the six members of the new 
Board bring a wealth of oil and gas expertise with which to support the 
continued growth of the Company as it seeks to implement its brown-
field development strategy in trinidad and Spain, placing it in a strong 
position to assess medium and longer term growth options.
as Chairman i would personally like to thank our management team 
in London, Spain and trinidad, for their hard work and dedication 
delivered again in 2014, and since the Company was founded. 
thanks also go to my fellow directors, past and present, and to our 
shareholders and advisors for their support in the past year, a year that 
was in my view transformational.
Steve Horton 
Non-executive Chairman
1 June 2015
