 02 ANGLE plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2004
Chairman’s Statement
Our flotation was the fulfilment of a long-held
objective and the achievement of a major milestone.
Hance Fullerton
Chairman
Introduction
ANGLE reached a significant milestone in
March 2004 when the Company listed on the
Alternative Investment Market of the London
Stock Exchange and raised £9.0 million
(gross). The flotation provides the platform
for dynamic growth. We now look forward to 
a future of great promise for both ANGLE and
its shareholders. 
Founded in 1 994, the Group’s integrated
business model combines its revenue-earning
Consulting and Management businesses with
its capital-growth Ventures business:
> Consulting: consulting on the
commercialisation of technology, including
consulting for major corporations, SMEs,
regional and national economic development
agencies and governments;
> Management: taking direct management
responsibility for activities such as operation
of research parks and technology incubators
and the management of innovation and
product development programmes; and
> Ventures: establishment and ownership of
significant equity stakes in a portfolio of
technology companies (Progeny
®
Companies), primarily in the biotechnology,
electronics and IT sectors, with a view to
realising value in the medium to long term.
The relationships ANGLE forges with owners
of intellectual property through its Consulting
and Management businesses enable the Group
to identify and exploit opportunities to
commercialise intellectual property using its
proprietary Progeny
®
process.
The Consulting and Management activity is
the channel for these exciting opportunities.
It is a vibrant and expanding part of our
business, and its development is central 
to our future. ANGLE has built profitable
Consulting and Management businesses in
both the UK and the US, providing revenue 
as well as the opportunity to build important
relationships with corporates, government
research establishments and universities.
ANGLE’s international reputation and proven
capability enabled it to win a major £1.55
million contract in the Middle East in
December 2003 to establish the Qatar
Foundation Science and Technology Park.
This is a new and exciting market for 
ANGLE, with the prospect of further work 
in the region. Several other substantial
management contracts were secured during
the year including a contract worth up to
£900,000 with the Carbon Trust on the
commercialisation of low carbon technology.
Results
Total income for the year was up 1 65% 
at £5.27 million (2003: £1.99 million)
comprising turnover of £2.87 million and
proceeds from disposal of £2.40 million.
In the year ended 30 April 2004, ANGLE
increased turnover by 45% to £2.87 million
(2003: £1.98 million) and, after £2.3 1 million
profit on disposal of Progeny
®
Company
Exago, achieved profit before tax of £2.33
million (2003: loss £0.35 million). Basic
earnings per share increased to 20.43p
(2003: loss 3.45p). 
In line with our current intention of retaining
earnings for future capital growth, no final
dividend is proposed. A change in accounting
policy, Accounting for Investments, and its
related impact on associate accounting has
been implemented as outlined in Note 1.3.
Progeny
®
Company Disposal
ANGLE’s business model for developing
Progeny
®
Companies was proven during the
year when Corpora plc acquired Exago for
£5.30 million in a share for share exchange
generating a £2.3 1 million profit in the year
for the Group.
In May 2002 ANGLE’s Progeny
®
Company,
Exago, secured intellectual property developed
by BT Exact, BT’s research, technology and IT
operations business.  The company launched
eXero, an integrated suite of software tools to
help users find, manage and share business
information. The successful disposal of Exago
demonstrates the value of ANGLE’s Progeny
®
process. The disposal generated a return for
ANGLE of eleven times monies invested in 
less than two years.
Finance
At the time of ANGLE’s flotation, 6.25 million
ordinary shares were placed at a price of
144p, raising £8.1 6 million for the Company,
net of costs. Net cash at 30 April 2004 03 ANGLE plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2004
Consulting
ANGLE provides consulting services on the commercialisation
of technology and the development of technology industry.
Our experienced management team includes senior executives with
technological and commercial backgrounds and expertise in bioscience,
computing, electronics, energy, life sciences, materials technology and software. 
These skills have been applied to projects that include:
> New product development programmes to support corporate R&D
> Establishing commercialisation strategies
> Commercial market appraisals and technology due diligence
> Design of public-sector policies, programmes on technology and innovation
> Development of science & research parks, and technology incubators
£2.7m
Consulting and Management Turnover
available for continuing investment in
Progeny
®
ventures and development of the
Group amounted to £8.25 million (2003:
£0.09 million). Net assets at 30 April 2004
amounted to £10.99 million (2003: £0.55
million). 
Strategy and Outlook
ANGLE’s objective is to achieve profitable
long term capital growth for its shareholders
through the successful combination of its
Consulting and Management businesses 
with the establishment and development 
of a portfolio of Progeny
®
Companies in a
range of technology sectors. The Group’s
access to intellectual property combined 
with its present cash resources and highly
experienced management team puts it in a
strong position to fulfil this objective over 
the next few years.
ANGLE moved strongly into profit during 
the year, with all activities in the Group
performing strongly. The Consulting and
Management order book remains strong at
£3.23 million at 30 April 2004, including
significant management contracts in the 
UK, US and Middle East, bringing with it 
a steady stream of commercialisation projects. 
The outlook for the current financial year is
encouraging. We have already made a number
of important announcements including:
> commercialisation of Provexis’ leading
product CardioFlow
®
for maintaining
cardiovascular health, which is progressing
apace following positive results from its final
human trials;
> major Consulting and Management contract
extensions in the UK and the US;
> Acolyte Biomedica, which is moving rapidly
towards launch of its MRSA diagnostic
product, having completed its £3.7 million
funding round during the year;
> NeuroTargets, which has announced a
collaborative agreement with BioFocus plc
to develop a therapeutic drug for nerve
injury and pain relief from intellectual
property owned by NeuroTargets; 
> the formation of a new Progeny
®
Company,
NovoCellus, to commercialise intellectual
property developed by the University of York
for assessing the viability of embryos for IVF
treatment.
In addition several other promising Progeny
®
Companies are under evaluation.
In 2004 we welcomed two new non-executive
directors, David Quysner and Iain Ross, to the
board. They bring extensive business and
commercial experience to the ANGLE team. 
I would like to thank all members of the
ANGLE team for their outstanding efforts in
delivering excellent financial and operational
results whilst simultaneously completing the
successful flotation of the business. We have
an exceptional team, and I am grateful for all
their hard work, enthusiasm and commitment
to the business. I look forward to working with
them in the year ahead.
Hance Fullerton
Chairman
16 August 2004
FROM LEFT TO RIGHT
Simon Crook, Senior Consultant
Stephen Bates, Ventures Director
