 04 ANGLE plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2004
Chief Executive’s Review
ANGLE moved strongly into 
profit during the year.
Andrew Newland
Chief Executive
Introduction
Growth and profitability were the
watchwords of the past year. ANGLE moved
strongly into profit during the year in both
Consulting and Management and Ventures,
whilst at the same time completing the
major fund raising and IPO supporting the
future development of the business.
Thousands of commercialisation
opportunities exist in the market, but only 
a small fraction of new technology ideas
have the potential to become companies in
their own right. Knowing how to transform
promising intellectual property into a 
viable business proposition by using a
combination of technological skills, finance
and management is a rare talent. It is in 
this that ANGLE excels.
ANGLE’s profits come from the Group’s
robust performance in both Consulting 
and Management, which generated £0.43
million in operating profit, and the Ventures
business, which generated operating profit
of £1.85 million. 
Consulting and Management
The Consulting and Management businesses
have had a successful year. Fees increased
48% to £2.66 million (2003: £1.80 million)
resulting in a profit of £0.43 million (2003:
£0.1 1 million loss) and an operating profit
margin of 1 6.1%. A number of major
contracts were secured during the year
and the sold order book is strong at £3.23
million at 30 April 2004 (2003: £1.04
million).
Combining technological skills with finance
and management, ANGLE consultants
design, develop and manage technology
commercialisation support programmes for
clients in the private and public sectors.
Activities include new product development
programmes to support corporate research
and development, the development of
intellectual property commercialisation
strategies and establishing and managing
science and research parks and technology
incubators.
Recent contracts the Consulting and
Management businesses have undertaken 
on a fee-for-service basis include:
> assisting the London Development Agency
to develop a growth strategy for London’s
research-led biotechnology sector;
> developing a commercialisation strategy
for intellectual property arising from
research carried out at the University 
of St. Andrews;
> providing strategic business advice 
to high-growth start-ups and SMEs in
Northern Ireland;
> developing, managing and operating
research parks and technology incubators,
including the bioAccelerator in Fairfax
County, Virginia, (US) and the iCentre in
Mansfield (UK);
> establishing the Qatar Foundation Science
and Technology Park in the Middle East;
> managing the NITECH Growth Fund, a
seed fund for new technology companies,
in Northern Ireland.
In Consulting and Management, there 
were particularly strong results in the 
UK, bolstered by a number of major new
contracts, including expansion into NHS
research commercialisation and growth in
long-term programme management.
Consulting and Management grew healthily
in the United States as well, moving into
profitability for the first time. The Virginia,
Maryland and Delaware operations all
performed strongly and the Group expanded
into Pennsylvania. 
I am delighted to report that ANGLE has
also secured a major new contract in the
Middle East at the end of 2003 to establish
the Qatar Foundation Science and
Technology Park. This contract provides 
us with an exciting new platform for
expansion into this market.
In short, the Consulting and Management
businesses grew significantly in terms of
turnover, profitability and global reach,
enabling ANGLE to enter the new financial
year with its best forward order book ever.  05 ANGLE plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2004
Management
ANGLE has the capacity to offer a fully managed service 
for the delivery of technology commercialisation support
programmes on behalf of clients in the private and 
public sectors.
Our management team has international experience in the planning,
development, management and marketing of technology based economic
development programmes including:
> Science and research parks
> Technology incubators and incubation
> Investment funds
> Product development services
£0.4m
Consulting and Management operating profit
Ventures
We are delighted to report the first
realisation in our Ventures business with 
the sale of our Progeny
®
Company, Exago to
Corpora plc in a share for share exchange
then representing 1 8.1% of Corpora’s issued
share capital. Having secured intellectual
property from British Telecom in 2002 to
develop software tools for managing business
information, we succeeded in developing the
company through to disposal less than two
years later. This generated a profit for
ANGLE of £2.3 1 million in the year, a return
of over eleven times the monies we invested.
We believe this success demonstrates the
value of our Progeny
®
process and that
numerous similar opportunities are available
to us through our Consulting and
Management businesses.
Corporates, public sector research
establishments (PSREs) and universities are
all sources of exciting new technology. But
identifying the sources of technology is not
where the real challenge lies. To successfully
build new technology ventures requires
relationships not just between organisations,
but between the right individuals within
those organisations. It requires commercial
people that are experienced in working with
scientists and academics. Furthermore, it
requires the capacity to combine funding
with the added-value of business skills that
come with an appropriate network of
partners and experts. ANGLE has built its
Progeny
®
process with all these facilities. It
has become a proven way to take emerging
technology opportunities and turn them
into viable commercial propositions.
Through its Consulting and Management
businesses, ANGLE has been engaged
on a fee-for-service basis by over eighty 
clients developing proprietary technology,
including over thirty five corporates, over
ten public sector research establishments 
and over thirty universities. These personal
relationships enable ANGLE to readily identify
those emerging opportunities that fit the
Progeny
®
approach. Unlike many venture
partners, ANGLE does not expect to find
complete management teams; clarity in the
product offering and complete market analysis;
or fully developed exploitation plans. On the
contrary, ANGLE is attracted by deficiencies 
FROM LEFT TO RIGHT
Theresa Wallis, Principal Executive
Simon Crook, Senior Consultant 06 ANGLE plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2004
Chief Executive’s Review (cont)
The systematic approach that Progeny
®
provides
enables ANGLE to spread any risk across a number
of research organisations and a range of 
technology applications. 
in these factors as it recognises its own ability
to deconstruct a technology opportunity and
build from it a truly commercial proposition,
filling gaps as they are identified. ANGLE
leverages its consulting staff to provide interim
management in these new Progeny
®
Companies
until it is clear what skills will be required
from the long-term management that it 
then recruits. 
The Progeny
®
process is ANGLE’s own system
for building technology-based companies.
The process generally involves:
> Initial commercial appraisal. A preliminary
and relatively rapid filtering process is
applied which interrogates the core issues
associated with the IPR (intellectual
property rights); 
> Further commercial appraisal. The
evaluation of IPR, prior agreements,
costings and a market opportunity
appraisal are critical steps at this stage;
> Establishment and management of the 
new technology company. This includes
acquisition of IPR in consideration for the
issue of shares in the new company;
> Securing external investment. Third party
investment capital for the new company 
is generally secured as soon as possible;
> Ongoing management and support.
ANGLE provides administrative and
financial management support, assists 
the company in developing collaborative
agreements and preparing the company 
for securing further external funding;
> Securing further external investment as
required; and
> Realisation or partial realisation of
ANGLE’s equity stake.
The systematic approach that Progeny
®
provides enables ANGLE to spread any risk
across a number of research organisations
and a range of technology applications. 
The application of Progeny
®
to the UK
biotechnology sector has been endorsed 
and financially supported by the DTI.
ANGLE has so far founded six Progeny
®
Companies including Exago. There are
currently five Progeny
®
Companies in 
which ANGLE retains an equity stake:
> Acolyte Biomedica: A medical technology
company that specialises in rapid bacterial
and antibiotic susceptibility testing.
ANGLE’s equity stake is 10.28% (10.04%
after minority interests). Additional
funding of £3.7m has recently been
secured to launch the MRSA product.
> IDR Therapeutics: A drug redevelopment
company that redesigns drugs to remove
toxic side effects. ANGLE has a 64% stake.
> NeuroTargets: A functional genomics
company set up to discover and develop
new drugs to treat diseases related to nerve
damage. ANGLE’s equity stake in
NeuroTargets is 30.09% (29.03% after
minority interests). Additional funding has
recently been secured and subsequent to
the year-end a collaborative agreement
signed with BioFocus plc. 
> NovoCellus: A biotechnology company that
is developing technology to determine the
viability of embryos used in IVF treatment.
Newly formed in Summer 2004. 
> Provexis: A nutraceutical company that
develops functional foods, supplements
and medical foods to improve
cardiovascular health. ANGLE has a
32.02% stake (30.97% after minority
interests). Clinical trials have recently 
been successfully completed on
Cardioflow
®
. 07 ANGLE plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2004
INITIAL COMMERCIAL APPRAISAL
FULL COMMERCIAL APPRAISAL
ESTABLISHMENT AND MANAGEMENT 
OF THE NEW TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
SECURING FURTHER EXTERNAL  
INVESTMENT IF REQUIRED
REALISATION OF ANGLE STAKE
ONGOING MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
Progeny  Process
®
SECURING EXTERNAL INVESTMENT
Ventures
ANGLE founds, develops and operates its own technology
companies (known as our "Progeny
® 
Companies"), utilising
our in-house Progeny
®
process. The Progeny
®
process
enables high calibre management to be deployed right
from the start-up of the Venture. Our Progeny
® 
Companies
commercialise intellectual property developed by
technology partners.
In addition to extensive involvement in venturing on a consulting basis for our
clients, ANGLE has created five new Ventures based on intellectual property
sourced from Dstl, BT, Professor T Macdonald of the University of Virginia,
University of Bristol and the Rowett Institute. Technologies being exploited
include medical diagnostics, knowledge management software, drug redesign,
drug discovery & development, and nutraceuticals & medical foods.
£1.8m
Ventures operating profit
The Company’s ongoing strategy is to 
create more Progeny
®
Companies in the
biosciences, electronics and optronics, IT,
materials, nanotechnology and software
sectors. Intellectual property currently 
under consideration includes biocompatible
materials for implants, information technology
for financial services and a skin cancer
diagnostic tool. 
ANGLE’s business is scaleable, well diversified
into international markets and benefits from 
a portfolio of companies specialising in a
number of different sectors. This diversity and
flexibility is key to ANGLE’s ongoing strength
and stability.
With a solid performance underpinning its
activities, a full order book going forward,
and many exciting and profitable
opportunities on the horizon, ANGLE is
facing the future with confidence and
optimism.
Andrew Newland
Chief Executive
16 August 2004
EXTERNAL INVESTOR
ANGLE TECHNOLOGY
TECHNOLOGY PARTNER
