 LIBERTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009
5
Chief Executive’s Review
The Renaissance of Liberty recaptured the store’s
original spirit, quirkiness and cutting-edge design
“This has been an historic year for our iconic brand. For the
first time in a decade Liberty has produced positive EBITDA
against a background of possibly one of the most difficult economic
environments the retail sector has experienced since the
early 1990s. ”
Our Renaissance
As shareholders know , much of this success has
been driven by the highly acclaimed Renaissance
of Liberty which was launched in February 2009.
Looking back at the launch, which was opened by
Slumdog Millionaire actress Freida Pinto, it is clear
that the Renaissance was a watershed for both the
flagship store and the brand itself.
In many ways the Renaissance recaptured the
original spirit of Liberty: quirkiness and cutting
edge design, all set in a redesigned store. This not
only brought back many of our former customers
but attracted many thousands of new customers
who began to explore the store and brand for the
first time.
Very quickly Liberty became the watchword
for new and exciting fashion with many brands
being introduced by the store to London for the
first time. As well as showcasing established
international designers, during 2009 we did much
to promote young British designers both the little
known as well as the well known. These included
Michael Birch, Lost Property , Alexander McQueen,
Stella McCartney , Nudie, Grayson Perry , Barbour
and Ronnie Wood.
Once more, Liberty was offering exciting,
eclectic but accessible fashion unavailable
elsewhere in London, right across the fashion
palette – from scarves to jewellery , from dresses
to perfume, and bags to sunglasses. Liberty was
even home to Hermès’ first ever pop-up shop
which was a tremendous success.
The result was an overall 20% uplift in Liberty’s
like-for-like revenues for 2009 to £59.6m against
£49.9m during the previous year. Sales at the
flagship store also rose strongly with total revenue
for 2009 18% higher at £37.3m against £31.5m a
year earlier.
What has been particularly pleasing is that we
have maintained the momentum established at the
time of the Renaissance launch not only through
the 2009 Spring/Summer seasons but also through
Autumn/Winter and into the first quarter of 2010.
2009 also saw the introduction of the Liberty
Style Service which has attracted a new group
of VIP’s to the store. The Style Service offers one-
to-one styling advice to individual customers that
helps them to select not only the most appropriate
range of garments but also the most suitable
accessories that complement those choices. LIBERTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009
6
It enables the serious customer to access the
entire Liberty range in one room and allows them
to experiment in a discreet environment as well as
enhancing their shopping experience.
While it is often fashion and designers that
capture the headlines as well as customers hearts,
Liberty has made great progress in other areas
too. Our well-established fabrics business has had
another record year as demand for new designs
as well as the back catalogue continues unabated.
Not only have collaborations with designers
such as Grayson Perry delivered great results but
our fabrics have been used in some unlikely
settings, such as recycled coffee bags. This eco-
bag from Lost Property took the humble coffee
bean bag, lined it with a Liberty print and created
another fashion must-have that flew out of the door
at £50 a time. We also re-introduced a collection of
souvenir items such as mugs and handkerchiefs,
all with Liberty prints. These instant gifts, which
we brought to the store during Summer 2009,
have been extremely successful and we continue
to sell them today .
Additionally we have created new , and even
more vibrant, prints in a range of different fabrics
that have included silk and wool for the first time.
This division has been supported by an expanded
commercial team.
The end result has been another extremely
strong contribution from our fabrics division that
saw revenue rise a further 23% to £21.5m
compared to £17.4m in 2008, which in itself was
a record performance. As has been noted in the
Chairman’s Statement, the Japanese element of
our Fabrics division benefited from a strongYen
in comparison to the Pound as it produced a 43%
increase in revenue in our financial statements.
It is also pleasing to see our Internet division
making solid progress over the year. Clearly the
division is benefiting from the increased exposure
the Liberty brand is receiving, both at home and
internationally . As we expanded our on-line store
it attracted a growing customer base, which was
particularly evident in the run-up to Christmas as
sales of seasonal gifts grew rapidly . We believe
this division has a great future and will be a major
component in the business as we go forward.
Chief Executive’s Review
Flagship store revenues
£37.3m
2008: £31.5m
“Very quickly Liberty
became the watchword
for new and exciting
fashion with many
brands being introduced
by the store to London
for the first time. ” LIBERTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009
7
As shareholders know we took the strategic
decision to close our Knightsbridge stand-alone
Liberty of London store in the Summer of 2009.
The decision was principally taken as we had
received an extremely attractive offer for our lease
on the shop in Sloane Street. In turn this gave us
the opportunity to re-structure the division by
re-modelling the brand and product offer across
the Liberty range, as well as exploring other
opportunities to develop Liberty of London both
at home and internationally .
There is no doubt in our mind that 2009 has
been a year of great progress for the business with
all divisions reporting sustainable growth, at a time
when there is great uncertainty in the economy
and the political climate. All our operating
divisions delivered EBITDA growth and it is
satisfying to be able to report that our Internet
business, which was only launched in July 2008
is already breaking even at the EBITDA level.
Liberty has demonstrated its ability to buck
economic and retail trends by returning to
profitability during one of the worst downturns in
recent retail history . It has created an environment
that is increasingly appealing to an ever widening
customer base while at the same time enhancing
the brand and the values that it represents. Once
more Liberty has become an exciting, eclectic but
accessible place to shop and therefore we view
the future with confidence.
Geoffroy de La Bourdonnaye
Chief Executive
30 March 2010
Chief Executive’s Review
Total revenue
£59.6m
2008: £49.9m
