 LIBERTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009
3
Chairman’s Statement
“This has probably been the most exciting, and successful, year in Liberty’s
recent history , despite the challenging economic environment. ”
Strong Progress
All our principal performance indicators rose strongly as the
Company is beginning to benefit from the changes introduced
by the current management team and for the first time in
a decade Liberty has recorded a positive EBITDA for a
12 months trading period.
At the heart of this sea change was last February’s
launch of the Renaissance of Liberty , which revitalised the
Regent Street flagship store and attracted an increasing
number of customers as well as strong media attention.
The result was a 18% revenue lift in the store for the year
to 31 December 2009 to £37.3m against £31.5m for the
previous 12-month period.
This excellent performance should be seen against a
background of extremely difficult trading conditions, especially
in the retail sector. Importantly the revenue uplift within the
flagship store was a major contributor to the Company’s
overall 19% increase in like-for-like revenue over the year
to £59.6m against £49.9m last time.
Once more Liberty fabrics performed strongly ,
generating revenue 23% higher at £21.5m compared to
£17.4m in the previous year, although a major factor in the
uplift in our Japanese fabrics business was currency
conversion. While inYen terms Japanese revenue increased
by 9%, when converted to Sterling the rise was some 43%.
Importantly for Liberty this stronger overall performance
has meant the Company has delivered positive EBITDA for
the year of approximately £0.1m against a negative £3.9m
for the 2008 period. Pre-tax losses after depreciation and
interest reduced from £7.0m last year to £4.5m for the 2009
period, reflecting close cost control. We have also benefited
from the recovering commercial property market as the
Tudor Building freehold has been revalued upwards to
£30.25m as at 31 December 2009 against £28.8m at June
2009, further underpinning the value of Liberty .
On 15 March 2010 we announced that contracts
had been exchanged for the sale of the freehold of the
Tudor Building for £41.5m, a considerable uplift over the
31 December 2009 valuation. As part of the proposed
freehold sale, Liberty will lease back the Great Marlborough
Street flagship store on a 30 year operating lease at an initial
annual rent of £2.1m, with fixed five yearly uplifts.
While our top line performance has been strong,
margins across the various divisions have come under
pressure over the course of the year resulting in an overall
fall in gross margin from 47% in the year to December 2008
to 45% for the year under review .
Over the course of the year we have continued to
fine-tune our restructuring of the business as it constantly
evolves to meet the demand of both customers and
changing market conditions. Apart from the impact of the
Renaissance of Liberty on the flagship store itself, we have
made key changes to other parts of the business,
particularly the Liberty of London brand.
As shareholders are aware, we took the decision to close
the Sloane Street stand-alone Liberty of London store
following an unsolicited approach from a French retailer
which paid us a £0.7m premium for our lease. Since the
year-end we have conducted an internal reorganisation
of Liberty of London and slimmed down the operation
expanding the brand across a wider product mix. We are
confident that this change will enhance profitability .
Since Autumn we have embarked on a strategic review
of the business with the principal aim of identifying options
that would enable us to build upon Liberty’s recent success
and to develop and grow its business. We are examining
a number of options in great detail as we seek to develop
a strategy that is best for Liberty , its employees and its
shareholders.
On 12 March 2010 we announced that the Company had
received approaches that could lead to an offer being made
for the business. We will report back to shareholders if any
of the approaches we have received lead to an offer being
made for the Company .
It has been an exciting year for Liberty . Increasing
numbers of new customers are discovering both the flagship
store and our internet-based shop for the first time.We have
recaptured our reputation for offering customers cutting
edge design in a unique retail environment. Our focus for
the current year is to further develop that reputation and
to become firmly established as London’s leading iconic
retail destination.
We continue to make progress and 2010 has started well.
While there are some signs of a return to economic stability ,
the uncertainties surrounding the year ahead make it difficult
to forecast performance with certainty . But we do have an
excellent management team that continues to breathe new
life into Liberty and develop the business in a sustainable
way . To that end I am cautiously optimistic about the coming
year as we build on the success of the past 12 months.
Richard Balfour-Lynn
Chairman
30 March 2010 Geoffroy de La Bourdonnaye
Chief Executive
