 I am pleased to report that during 2002 the foundations for the
commercial phase of the business were clearly established.As we
enter our second full year of sales we are confident that we have
both the product and the organisational infrastructure to access the
substantial market opportunity outlined in our flotation prospectus.
The challenges for 2003 are to roll out sales in Europe and grow
and accelerate closures of our sales pipeline in the USA.
Financial review 
Turnover increased to £2,042,000.Whilst this was lower than
original market expectations, it was 81% above the previous year
(2001 – £1,130,000), generating a gross profit of £1,263,000
(2001 – £832,000) and representing a gross margin of 62% 
(2001 – 74%), in line with the Company’s expectations.
As 2002 was the first full year of sales, administration expenses rose
to reflect higher sales and marketing costs.Administration expenses
were in line with expectations at £7,038,000 (2001 – £3,999,000).
The pre and post tax loss was £5,496,000 (2001 – £2,803,000) 
and the basic loss per share is calculated at 7.72p (2001 – 5.70p).
At the year end, net assets amounted to £8.4m, including net
current assets of £6.9m.The year end net cash balance was
£4.0m (2001 – £11.4m).The Group’s programme of investment
in working capital and production facilities is now complete,
so that the cash burn in 2003 is expected to fall significantly.
Trading review
Unit sales of monitors doubled whilst those of single use sensors
trebled. 74% of turnover related to monitors and 19% to sensors,
with 7% relating to licence fee income. 83% of the monitors 
(2001 – 98%) were sold on a capital sale basis.The average monthly
usage rate of sensors per monitor was six, which is very encouraging.
Monitor sales consisted of 211 PulseCO units and 89 LiDCO
units. In 2003, all sales are expected to be of the improved
LiDCOplus unit, which combines the software of the two
previous monitors into a single, easy-to-use unit based on 
the PulseCO monitor.
USA
During 2002 sales to US customers were made through our
direct sales force of 12 people.Turnover increased to £1,009,000
(2001 – £632,000), with 92% of monitors sold on a capital basis.
By the end of 2002, 40 hospitals had purchased the technology.
Included in these customers are a number of influential regional
referral centers including: MD Anderson (Houston), Beaumont
(Detroit), Crawford Long (Atlanta), University of Chicago and
Northwestern Memorial (Chicago). In order to expand their use 
of our minimally invasive monitoring six US customers have
already reordered monitors during 2002. Of particular note is
Sarasota Hospital (Tampa, Florida) which has fully equipped its
cardiovascular theatres and intensive care department through 
the purchase of 19 monitors.
Overall clinical acceptance of the technology has been excellent 
as evidenced by the high percentage of requests for sales proposals
resulting from hospitals’ clinical evaluation of the products.While
progress to the clinical sign off stage has been rapid, closure of sales
has proved to be significantly slower than expected, due mainly 
to cost containment by the hospital administration and consequent
lengthening of the capital cycle, an industry-wide phenomenon.
It is, however, encouraging that follow-on purchases of monitors
have experienced a shorter capital cycle time at seven months.
Despite this tough commercial environment, prices for both the
monitor and sensor products have been very robust and according
to the Company’s expectations.
Chief Executive’s Review
page 5 LiDCO Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002
Investment in facilities During 2002 LiDCO invested £0.8m in new
production facilities at its factory in London, including construction
of a second clean room and additional automation equipment,
to satisfy expected demand. The US is the most important market and represents approximately
60% of our potential worldwide sales. Experience of our first full
year of direct sales in this market shows that the desire to change 
to our minimally invasive monitoring technology is substantially as
expected. However, the most challenging aspects regarding access to
this market are the hospital capital cycle and the physical size of the
opportunity, with around 14,000 potential customers within 3,500
hospitals. In the last quarter of 2002, following a review of US sales
strategy, the Company decided that the high level of interest in the
product and the margins being achieved in early sales meant that
seeking a major US corporate sales partner had now become 
a commercially attractive route to accessing the market and
announced its intention to start seeking a suitable partner.
UK
As with the USA we have just concluded our first full year of direct
sales co-ordinated from our Granta Park (Cambridge) office. Given
the severe shortage of funds available for capital expenditure in 
the UK NHS the sales strategy was to mostly provide monitors 
without charge and sell the sensors and associated disposables
mainly by means of a compensatory up charge.Turnover increased
to £300,000 (2001 – £113,000) – with 35% of monitors placed 
on a capital basis. Use of disposables has been very encouraging 
at 11 per monitor. By the end of 2002, 25 hospitals had adopted
our technology. Our sales force numbering six people is considered 
by the Company to be appropriate to penetrate this market fully.
Continental Europe
In anticipation of final approvals of lithium chloride, distributors
were appointed in Holland, Italy, Spain, Belgium and the Czech
Republic. Sales therefore predominantly reflected stocking orders
and subsequent clinical trials in major reference centers.Turnover
increased to £441,000 (2001 – £114,000). Discussions are currently
underway to establish a distributor for Germany and Austria.
During 2002 the European sales pipeline grew significantly with
224 product demonstrations made, all of which resulted in a
request for a field trial. 184 field trials were initiated and 143
were completed. Of the 176 sales proposals made 54 resulted 
in sales closures in the year, 114 sales proposals are still in process
with eight sales proposals not proceeding due to lack of hospital
budget funding.
Far East and Japan
Sales in the Far East and Japan totalled £292,000 (2001 – £271,000).
Approval of the PulseCO system for sale in Japan is expected towards
the end of 2003. Sales throughout the Far East and Japan are made
through distributors appointed by the Company.
Clinical validation
The Company continues to support an active program of clinical
validation of the accuracy of its products in cardiac/major surgery,
intensive care, trauma and heart failure markets (see the Company
website: www.lidco.com for full publication details.) 2002 was
another successful year with studies concluding positively at: Duke
University (N. Carolina) – intensive care, University of Chicago
(Illinois) – surgical study, Hammamatsu University (Japan) – efficacy
in pathological lung oedema, Southampton University Hospital –
heart failure and ‘off-pump’ cardiac surgery.
Product applications
The Company actively assists customers to conduct trials of novel
applications of its technology .Applications currently undergoing 
trials or further development include peri-operative optimisation,
congestive heart failure and paediatrics, all large or expanding markets.
Regulatory affairs 
In 2003, regulatory approval for the LiDCO System lithium
chloride in vivo diagnostic has been received in principle in 
the following EU territories:Austria, Belgium, Germany, Italy,
LiDCO has made significant progress 
towards each of the benchmarks set 
out in the flotation prospectus.
Chief Executive’s Review continued
page 6 LiDCO Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002
Case Study// Sarasota Hospital / Florida has equipped each of 
its intensive care beds with a PulseCO monitor. “The PulseCO has
proven very beneficial to our patient care.The PulseCO’s immediate,
real-time display of hemodynamic status during difficult periods 
of patient management and while directing therapies, is a great
improvement in monitoring technology.The PulseCO also allows 
us to better manage additional patients who don’t have central 
lines in place.The PulseCO actually reduces our direct costs, a real
rarity for new technologies.”
Head of Cardiac Anesthesia, Sarasota Hospital the Netherlands and Spain.This brings the number of territories
in which the Company has approval to sell its products to 12.
In addition, approval applications are in progress for: Iran, Korea
and Taiwan and further applications will be made during 2003.
New products
On 9 January 2003, approval was received from the FDA (Food 
and Drug Administration of the USA) for the sale of the LiDCOplus
Hemodynamic Monitor in the USA.The LiDCOplus Monitor
combines the measurement and monitoring features of the
Company’s existing products: the LiDCO (lithium dilution cardiac
output measurement) and PulseCO Systems (real-time cardiovascular
monitor), thus saving premium space around the patient’s bed 
and significantly enhancing ease of use.
Research and development
The Company is actively developing additional features and
applications for its products.There are currently two principal
areas of development:
Monitoring of Patient Fluid Status 
This is one of the key unfulfilled measurements required in
critical care patients.The commercial implication of improving
the performance of the LiDCOplus in this arena is that we 
could greatly increase the numbers of patients for whom the
technology is suitable.The Company’s ambition is to have a
LiDCOplus at the bedside for all acute care patients with arterial
monitoring who require fluid management.The customer
requires a more visual way of detecting occult low blood volume
status and the amount of fluid required to restore the patient.
We are currently recording ‘fluid loading’ episodes in patients
undergoing optimisation for high risk surgery.This data will be
used to model the user interface and assess clinician and nursing
response to the novel interfaces.
Capillary Venous Pressure Measurement
This is a software algorithm which uses the arterial pressure
waveform to indicate the average pressure at the venous end 
of the tissue capillary.This would have potential application 
in fluid volume management (see above).The patent for this
measurement has been filed and is progressing to the worldwide
PCT application stage.The accuracy to which the measurement
can be made and the utility of the measurement is under
investigation.
Prospects 
The foundations to support continued growth were put in place
during 2002. 2003 will see an increasing focus by the Company
on sales in its expanded group of territories. Sales in the US are
expected to continue to be subject to a slow capital cycle. In
order to access the full market potential of the product in the 
US and accelerate the closure of pipeline accounts the Company
is in early discussions with potential US distribution partners.
Given the progress made during 2002 and the fact that the
Company has succeeded in establishing a high level of interest 
in a high margin product that is supported by a low cost
manufacturing base we believe that it is in a strong position 
to attract a suitable distribution partner.We hope to be able 
to announce on these matters further during the year.
Investment will continue in the core technology to develop
further enhancements to our sensor technology, physiological
waveform monitoring software and user interfaces.
Terry O’Brien
Chief Executive Officer
25 March 2003
page 7 LiDCO Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002
Case Study// St. George’s Hospital / London “We bought this new
technology, LiDCO, which allows us to monitor cardiac output from
which we can calculate oxygen delivery. We can get this answer
very quickly, within about 15 minutes, and this may be very
important in determining the outcome of the patient. More than
that, it can be set up by the nurses independently of the doctor 
and also allows us to continuously monitor these variables of
cardiac output delivery. We believe it has considerable potential 
in allowing us to monitor these patients for as long as we require.”
Director of Intensive Care Unit, St. George’s Hospital
World market for cardiovascular
monitoring equipment
£ 1.65bn
