 LiDCO’s strategy is to apply a multi-disciplinary
combination of physiological expertise, materials
technology, computing technology and software 
to monitor and display the relationship between
linked physiological variables.
The LiDCOplus monitor displays a range 
of real-time continuous hemodynamic
parameters, including cardiac output,
oxygen delivery and fluid volume status.
What is driving market growth:
• Increasing numbers of elderly people living longer
• Demand for less invasive products offering better care
• Patient knowledge due to the internet and media
The Group has developed a minimally
invasive product, disposables and
monitoring equipment which improve
the standard of care, reduce the
incidence of adverse events and 
reduce costs.
Our market
today...
Our products offer:
• Real-time, beat-to-beat cardiac
monitoring
• Minimally invasive technology,
reducing the risk to the patient
• Easy-to-use technology to assist
clinical staff
Group at a Glance
page 2 LiDCO Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002
The LiDCOplus monitor
The LiDCOplus combines the measurement and monitoring
features of LiDCO (lithium dilution cardiac output measurement)
and PulseCO (real-time cardiovascular monitoring), significantly
enhancing ease of use and saving space around the patient. Our customers are hospitals for critical care 
and cardiovascular patients who require real-time,
minimally invasive cardiac monitoring.
The chart screen on the LiDCOplus monitor
shows the relationship between pressure, flow
and resistance in an integral bar chart display.
Complex data can be easily interpreted and
the necessary patient-corrective actions 
taken quickly.
The LiDCOplus monitor provides a variety 
of different modes of displaying data.
The monitor shows all information clearly, to
provide easy-to-read feedback to clinical staff.
...and the future
Lithium chloride solution
The LiDCO sensor is activated by a small dose of lithium chloride,
injected via a central venous catheter.The resulting arterial lithium
concentration-time curve is recorded by withdrawing blood past
the lithium sensor.
page 3 LiDCO Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002
The LiDCO sensor
LiDCO has developed a proprietary lithium sensor using lithium
indicator dilution to calculate cardiac output.This is used to
calibrate the LiDCOplus monitor. Safe and extremely accurate,
this method is simple to perform, taking less than five minutes 
for the entire procedure.
