 During the past year, we enhanced every
aspect of our business. We aim to make every
day extraordinary for every one of our
customers, exceeding their expectations 
and delivering added value.
Customers
Our customers are hospitals for critical care
and cardiovascular patients who require 
real-time, minimally-invasive cardiac
monitoring.
LiDCO Group Plc Annual report and accounts, year ended 31 December 2003
Group at a Glance
page 2
Our business
The LiDCOplus combines the measurement and
monitoring features of LiDCO (lithium dilution cardiac
output measurement) and PulseCO (real-time
cardiovascular monitoring), significantly enhancing 
ease of use and saving space around the patient.
Process
The Group has developed a minimally-
invasive product,disposables and monitoring
equipment which improve the standard of
care,reduce the incidence of adverse events
and reduce costs.
Opportunities
The market for cardiovascular monitoring
equipment is worth £1.65 billion per year
worldwide.
£1 . 65 b n
The LiDCOplus monitor
Coverage
LiDCO now has distributors and sales 
forces covering the major markets of 
the US,UK and Japan and sells to 
19 countries worldwide. Future developments
In 2004, LiDCO signed a deal with Philips Medical Systems to
create a communications link between the LiDCOplus monitor
and Philips’ IntelliVue Patient Monitor.This will allow Philips’
customers access to LiDCO’s hemodynamic monitoring data 
on the Philips monitor.
LiDCO Group Plc Annual report and accounts, year ended 31 December 2003
page 3
Focus on rail and
roads
In rail we offer three distinct types of services:
track renewals; multi-disciplinary rail maintenance services;
and one-off projects (such as capacity improvements and
signalling schemes).
On the roads our operating companies are involved in
highways maintenance; manufacturing and installing
specialist products and surfaces.
LiDCO has developed a proprietary lithium sensor using
lithium indicator dilution to calculate cardiac output.
This is used to calibrate the LiDCOplus monitor. Safe and
extremely accurate, this method is simple to perform,
taking less than five minutes for the entire procedure.
The LiDCO sensor is activated by a small dose of lithium
chloride, injected via a central venous catheter.The
resulting arterial lithium concentration-time curve is
recorded by withdrawing blood past the lithium sensor.
“LiDCO is developing its
product to be useable in a
wider variety of applications,
including peri-operative
optimisation and congestive
heart failure.”
200
Over 200 hospitals worldwide use
the LiDCO system.
What is driving market growth:
• Increasing numbers of elderly people living longer
• Demand for less invasive products offering better care
• Need for better records and integration
Our global reach
LiDCO sells through a combination of direct sales
forces and specialist medical distributors, who are
trained in the use of the LiDCO System.
The LiDCO sensor Lithium chloride solution
