 LiDCO Group Plc Annual report and accounts, year ended 31 December 2003
Chairman’s Review
page 4
Theresa Wallis Chairman
Sales in the UK were particularly
encouraging and, at the end of 
2003, 25% of UK acute care hospitals 
had purchased LiDCO’s products.
The year 2003 was one of consistent sales growth and growing
recognition of the benefits of minimally-invasive haemodynamic
monitoring.The foundations that had been built previously in terms 
of manufacturing capacity and efficiency enabled the Company 
to increase sales whilst maintaining pricing and gross margins.
Sales grew by 33% to £2.7 million and the loss after tax was reduced 
by 30% to £3.8 million.The installed base of monitors stood at 591 
(264 in the US) at the year end and 10,260 sensors were sold during
the year. As anticipated, overall expenditure by the Company during
the year was reduced substantially to £3.4 million (excluding a
placement of shares which raised £1 million) from £7.4 million in 2002.
This was made possible because of the earlier significant investment 
in the manufacturing equipment, and facilities coupled to product
margin improvements. Careful cost control was also important 
in minimising expenditure.
Sales in the UK were particularly encouraging and at the year end
approximately 25% of UK acute care hospitals had purchased LiDCO’s
products. Delays in implementation of the EU mutual recognition
approvals meant that sales into Europe were delayed into 2004.
However in Japan, PulseCO registration was achieved and a substantial
sale made. In the US, new sales models were introduced during the
second half of the year in order to address the slow US capital sales
cycle anticipated in last year’s report.
During the year, significant effort was devoted to finding and
evaluating potential US sales partners, concluding with the signing of
Heads of Agreement in May 2004 with four distributors across North
America.This will enable LiDCO to increase the number of salesmen
promoting the LiDCO System in the US from seven in 2003 to around
60. We look forward to working with our distributors and agents across
the world in order to maximize our market penetration.
Besides the actual growth in sales, the Company has made significant
progress in increasing its name recognition. In addition, awareness 
and understanding of the benefits of the Company’s products and 
the minimally-invasive technology on which they are based have risen.
These are significant achievements for a young company that only
launched its first products in 2001.
Demand from investors enabled us to issue £1.0 million of new shares
in 2003 to provide additional working capital for the Company.
Principally in order to enable us to fund our US expansion plans, a
further £3.7 million of shares are being issued in 2004. Looking ahead,
I am confident that sales will continue to grow, both directly through
our highly-skilled sales force and indirectly through our distributor
network.Tight controls on cash expenditure will be maintained.
I would like to take this opportunity to extend my thanks to the
management and staff of LiDCO for all their dedication, hard work and
enthusiasm and to our scientific advisory panel for their valuable input
and support.
Theresa Wallis
Chairman
18 May 2004 LiDCO Group Plc Annual report and accounts, year ended 31 December 2003
Our breadth
Breadth of application 
The LiDCO System brings
minimally-invasive cardiac
output monitoring to a wider
variety of major operations.
Intensive care, recovery, surgery etc
Clinicians who use the LiDCO System have found it invaluable
not only in intensive care units, but on patients undergoing a
variety of surgery. Some of these are not able to have catheters
inserted and are reliant on LiDCO’s minimally-invasive approach
to monitoring.This brings the benefits of the LiDCO System to 
an ever-growing new market.
CASE STUDY PENROSE HOSPITAL, COLORADO, USA 
“I find the LiDCOplus continuous cardiac output monitor
invaluable in providing the highest quality and most up-to-date
anesthesia to my patients during major operative procedures.
I use it on all major spine cases and many of my partners now
use it on all their heart cases, especially off-pump bypass cases.”
Dr. Jon Taylor, Chief of Anesthesia
page 5
