 LiDCO Group Plc Annual report and accounts, year ended 31 December 2003
Chief Executive’s Review
page 6
Terry O’Brien Chief Executive
The requirement for less invasive, more portable and user friendly
monitoring continues to grow. Estimates are that, by the year 2030, more
than 70 million Americans will be over the age of 65 and more than 60%
of senior citizens will experience some form of cardiovascular disease
and require treatment in the emergency room, intensive care unit and
other locations throughout the hospital. It is estimated that 90% of
hospitals are already at or over capacity for treating such patients.This
lack of capacity and the resulting shortages create an obvious need 
for faster, simpler and more efficient monitoring equipment. Such
monitoring products need to promote earlier diagnosis and intervention
as well as the ability to monitor a patient’s condition during operations
and thereby help in improving patient care and outcomes.There is
increasing evidence that this kind of accelerated care translates into
quicker recovery, shorter hospitalization and reduced costs.
Increasingly, hospitals are purchasing minimally-invasive monitoring
technologies, driven by a desire to move patients quickly from high
cost areas to lower cost care units such as high dependency and 
step-down wards. Lower risk monitors which focus on key parameters,
such as oxygen delivery, and do not require the use of a ventilator, or 
a cardiac invasive catheter, are meeting the monitoring needs of the
ageing population in the 21st Century.
Given this clear market opportunity, I am pleased to report that
acceptance of our products is now occurring in all our sales territories.
This is evidenced by the fact that at the end of 2003, we estimate that
our technology had been adopted in more than 200 hospitals in
Europe, USA and the Far East.
US distribution agreements
In the US, our key goal was to continue to recruit new customers and
explore various sales models through our existing sales force. In last
year’s Annual Report, we stated our intention to expand distribution
through a sales partnership. After considerable discussion with a
number of interested parties, the decision was made to appoint a
group of independent sales agents in parallel with our own sales
specialists. Consequently, four distributors have signed Heads of
Agreement, with final contracts due shortly.These four agents provide
a wealth of experience and customer relationships and a combined
sales force of around 60 people and will provide significantly increased
US geographic coverage.The newer sales models introduced in the US
during the second half of 2003 will underpin the approach to be taken
by both our own direct US sales force and the expanded group of
agents. Although this approach will require working capital support,
the Directors anticipate that these new sales arrangements will be 
self-financing within 18 months.
Technical collaboration with Philips Medical Systems
The adoption of our products by key clinical centres has enhanced
LiDCO’s recognition.This has led to the signing of a contract with Philips
Medical Systems to create a communications link between LiDCO’s
proprietary, stand-alone monitoring system and Philips' patient monitors,
via the Philips Open Vuelink Interface protocol. Under the agreement,
Philips is providing LiDCO with appropriate software to enable a
communications link between Philips' Intellivue Patient Monitor and the
LiDCOplus Hemodynamic Monitor. Once completed, the communications
link will allow Philips customers to access LiDCO’s proprietary
hemodynamic monitoring data on the IntelliVue Patient Monitor.
The integration of critical care parameters and data derived from the
LiDCOplus monitor will allow a fuller picture of the patient’s condition
and history to be displayed and accessed throughout the hospital.
Financial Review
Turnover increased by 33% to £2,717,000.This growth was impacted by
the targeted shift in business model in the US away from capital sales
towards upcharge and rental models.This reduced turnover in 2003, but
is expected to generate greater ongoing revenue in future years.The
gross profit of £1,909,000 (2002 - £1,263,000) represents a gross margin 
of 70.2% (2002 - 61.9%). In direct sales territories, margins remain strong 
at 70% to 85% for the monitor and 79% to 90% for the disposables, with 
a payback on the apportioned capital costs (in upcharge or fee per use
accounts) of around five months or less.
In 2003, the Company continued its active and ongoing cost
management programme, the initial impact of which was a reduction
of 14% in administration expenses to £6,044,000 (2002 - £7,038,000).
The post-tax loss was £3,829,000 (2002 - £5,496,000) and the loss per
share of 5.27p was an improvement of 32% (2002 - 7.72p). At the year
end, net assets amounted to £5.6 million, including net current assets 
of £4.0 million.The year end net cash balance was £1.6 million 
(2002 - £4.0 million). LiDCO Group Plc Annual report and accounts, year ended 31 December 2003
Our technology
Beat-to-beat monitoring
The LiDCOplus monitor provides
real-time, beat-to-beat
information on the patient’s
status. Each heartbeat is displayed
on the monitor screen as a
separate data point.
Real-time data: essential for patient care
Instead of averaging patient data over several minutes, the
LiDCOplus displays each new reading on its screen without delay.
Changes in the patient’s condition can be seen at once by the
clinician, who can adjust the patient’s treatment accordingly.
CASE STUDY HOSPITAL SANTIAGO APOSTOL, VITORIA, SPAIN
“Determining whether to provide cardiac drugs and at what dose
in critically ill patients with overwhelming infections is a difficult
problem. Initially, in a patient with circulatory failure, the first step
is to determine if they need fluids or drugs which alter the way
the cardiovascular system works.The LiDCOplus monitor
provides this vital information on a beat-to-beat basis and is the
only monitor which helps in the decision making process with
data interpretation screens. Continuous monitoring with the
LiDCOplus helps us to resuscitate the patients, adjust the doses
of drugs, and optimise the patient’s heart rate, oxygen delivery
and stabilise organ function.”
Dr. Javier Maynar, Spain
page 7 Our adaptability
Ease of use
The time taken to attach a
patient to a monitor can be
critical in determining patient
outcomes.
Saving clinicians’ time
The LiDCO System is designed so that nurses can attach the
sensor to the patient.This frees up time for the doctors on the
ward.The patient’s data is then presented on the monitor screen
in an easily-readable form, so that nurses can see at a glance the
condition of each patient.
CASE STUDY VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL, USA
“The LiDCOplus monitor has been well received in the culture of
our unit.The nurses are comfortable with both the initial setup
and the interpretation of the data. I feel that this monitor has great
potential in this unique patient population. Given the technical
expertise required and risk of infection, there is little reason to
insert a pulmonary artery catheter instead of a LiDCO sensor.”
Dr. Jeff Guy, Assistant Professor of Surgery,Trauma Surgery,
Burns, & Critical Care
LiDCO Group Plc Annual report and accounts, year ended 31 December 2003
page 8 The second half of 2004 is expected to see significant expansion in our
sales activities, particularly in the US, Japan and Continental Europe.
Revenue is increasingly moving towards being based on a recurring
annuity stream from sensor sales, monitor rental income and software
‘fee per use’ , rather than capital sales of the monitor. In order to support
the sales expansion in the US and in additional new territories, to
finance product development and to provide additional working
capital, the Company is issuing an additional £3.7 million of shares 
(net of costs).
Trading Review
The installed base of monitors rose by 97% to 591 (2002 - 300), while
sales of single use sensors also rose by 97% to 10,260 (2002 - 5,220).
Of the total sales in 2003 of £2,717,000, 67% related to monitors 
(2002 - 74%) and 33% related to sensors and licence fees (2002 - 26%).
LiDCO estimates that as of May 2004 between 2,000 and 2,500 patients
per month are being treated with its technology.The Board’s ambition
is to achieve the Company’s first profits on a monthly basis by the end
of 2005.
Usage of LiDCO sensors is continuing to double every year, and 
this rate of growth is consistent with progress to date on sensor 
sales in 2004.
US
During 2003, sales to US customers were made through our direct 
US-based sales force.Turnover was £742,000 (2002 - £1,008,000), with
capital sales of monitors representing 39% of units placed (2002 - 96%).
The number of monitors and sensors placed increased by 27% and 72%
respectively, with 20% of customers reordering equipment. Like-on-like
sales per sales person increased by 30%.The average number of
monitors purchased/placed (first order) was 3.5 with the average
number of sensors used per month being up from 3 (in previous years)
to 5 in LiDCO sensor calibration accounts.Turnover was adversely
impacted by the shift from capital sale towards upcharge and rental/fee
per use models. In addition, there was an adverse currency impact from
the weakening dollar of £92,000.
The US is the biggest single market and represents approximately 50%
of our potential worldwide sales. Having demonstrated the demand for
LiDCO’s products with a limited direct sales resource, the most pressing
need was to put in place a broad-based distribution network that
would be able to access this market of around 14,000 potential call
points within 3,500 hospitals.To this end, we conducted a review of
distribution and partnership options available (in conjunction with a
US bank - William Blair).The conclusion was that the most effective
approach would be to establish a network of regional agents.
Alongside existing capital sales and upcharge sales models, the
rental/consignment model was introduced during the last quarter 
of 2003 as a basis for accelerating the market penetration of our
monitoring systems given the lengthy US capital sales cycle. Under 
this new model, customers are charged a fee each time they use 
the LiDCOplus software, but pay no up-front fee for the monitor.
Furthermore, they can cost-effectively calibrate their installed LiDCOplus
system using third party products, as well as LiDCO sensors, thereby
further increasing the range of clinical situations in which our monitors
can be used.With this sales model we have had successes at a number
of US hospitals where we have been able to provide advanced, real-
time cardiovascular monitoring, while still saving the hospital money
against their existing revenue budget for invasive monitoring.
UK
Turnover increased by 135% to £707,000 (2002 - £302,000) with sensor
sales (at an average of 8 sensors per monitor per month) more than
doubling. Around 25% of UK critical care hospitals now use LiDCO’s
technology.
In 2003, the UK became the first territory where the use of these newer
products approximated that of the traditional, more invasive catheters.
Given the cost constraints affecting the UK’s National Health Service,
this demonstrates that hospitals are willing to make investments that
are regarded as relatively low-cost and high-value propositions.
Continental Europe
Sales progress in Continental Europe was slower than anticipated due to
unavoidable delays at the individual country level in the implementation
of our January 2003 EU mutual recognition approvals.The extent of
these delays meant that sales into first wave European territories were
delayed into 2004.Turnover for 2003 was £249,000 (2002 - £441,000).
LiDCO continues to sign up new
distributors in countries across the world.
Our sales by market in 2003
%
Far East
37%
USA
28%
UK
26% 
Europe
9% 
LiDCO Group Plc Annual report and accounts, year ended 31 December 2003
page 9 Far East and Japan
Sales in the Far East and Japan totalled £815,000 (2002 - £152,000).
Approval of the PulseCO system for sale in Japan was received in August
2003 and the Company’s distributor, Nipro Corporation, purchased 100
monitors in preparation for the launch of the product. Following the
product launch in November 2003, Nipro initiated the training of its 
200-strong sales force in February 2004 and began sales activity.
Research and Development and Product Applications
Our development activities centre on additional product applications
that can be quickly added to our platform monitor through further
developments in the proprietary software signal processing and user
interfaces. In particular, we expect to add further functionality in terms
of the optimisation of risk surgery patients, which we believe to be 
a considerable unexploited market opportunity.
Improving outcomes and reducing costs in high-risk surgery patients
One of the most important aspects in the evolution of intensive care 
is the change in emphasis from the intensive care unit as a physical
location to which critically ill patients are taken, towards a hospital wide
cardiovascular physiology knowledge base. Adopting this strategy
means that hospitals can provide cardiovascular monitoring for the 
sub-acute and pre-critically ill patient in less costly alternative sites of
care. Perioperative optimization is the preventative manipulation of
patients’ physiological parameters during the period around surgery 
to ensure adequate oxygen delivery to the brain and other critical
organs.These optimization protocols have a positive influence on 
patient outcomes.The increasing recognition of the advantages of
preventative cardiovascular management we believe has increased 
the market for our minimally-invasive and portable technology.
In conjunction with a number of leading hospitals, LiDCO is developing
the LiDCOplus user interface to allow the nurse-led optimization of
fluid administration to such patients.This will reduce the risks and 
costs associated with improving outcomes in surgery patients using
more invasive technologies.Tests are in progress to validate the use 
of our technology in this application. Results from these tests will 
be available shortly.
Looking ahead, we are also assessing the potential to use completely
non-invasive (skin applied) sensor technology with the LiDCOplus
monitor to identify and optimize high-risk surgery patients.
In November 2003, our PulseCO monitor
was launched in Japan.The Japanese
market is the second largest in the world,
after the USA.
LiDCO Group Plc Annual report and accounts, year ended 31 December 2003
page 10 Our market
Market opportunity
The US, UK and Japan account for
the majority of the £1.65 billion
worldwide market for cardiac
monitoring equipment. LiDCO
now sells its products into all 
these countries.
LiDCO’s wide spread
LiDCO has built up a network of distributors across the world 
and the LiDCO system is in use in 19 countries. Developing
markets have been early adopters of the LiDCOplus monitor.
CASE STUDY SOUTH AFRICA
“I was called out last night to anaesthetise for a major abdominal
operation on an 85- year old patient.The surgeon advised 
his family that he would be unlikely to survive the procedure 
or leave the operating room. However, we used the LiDCOplus
device to monitor the patient throughout the case and, as 
a result, the patient survived to be taken to intensive care 
and within 24 hours he was out of danger.”
Dr R. Drummond, St. Augustine’s hospital, Durban
LiDCO Group Plc Annual report and accounts, year ended 31 December 2003
page 11
