 CHieF eXeCUtive oFFiCer’ s 
review
“ t he market for less invasive 
hemodynamic monitoring 
products is growing 
strongly. t he challenge  
for l iDCo is to keep 
strengthening its product 
offering and distribution 
reach in order to participate 
fully in this growth”
Dr Terry O’Brien
LiDCO Group Plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/6
06 introduction
This has been a highly productive year 
for us on many fronts. I am very pleased 
to report that LiDCO’s revenues have 
grown significantly across our major 
sales territories of the USA and Europe. 
This growth has been achieved despite 
the financial constraints that hospitals 
are subjected to that tend to slow the 
adoption of new medical technologies. 
Higher sales coupled with a reduced 
administrative cost base have resulted in 
our losses being halved within the year. 
Market
It is evident that we have a significant 
and expanding market opportunity that 
is expected to grow from its current  
base of around US$40 million to around 
US$400 million per annum by the year 
2010. During the year, we estimate  
the minimally invasive cardiovascular 
monitoring market grew by about 40%, 
from US$26 million to approximately 
US$40 million per annum. This has 
resulted in most companies providing 
less invasive cardiovascular monitoring 
products reporting sales increases within 
the year. Our percentage sales growth 
increase was greater than those 
reported by any of our competitors — 
albeit we started the year from a low 
revenue base. In marked contrast, sales 
of the older and invasive pulmonary 
artery catheter are expected to continue 
to decline — from US$150 million today, to 
around US$100 million per annum in 
2010. So, while we are sure that 
competition for a share of this market 
will continue, we remain confident that 
we will stay at the forefront of this 
market evolution. 
product development
Continued commercial growth will  
come from promoting a product that is 
efficiently manufactured and backed up 
by excellence in the sales and marketing 
efforts. 
i am delighted to report  
that our product quality  
and customer feedback 
continues to be first–rate. 
Furthermore, our manufacturing 
automation and partnerships with our 
component suppliers will continue to 
reduce the cost of sales and increase 
margins. 
Out in the market, our products have 
now been independently validated 
through controlled clinical trials in 10 
different countries: Japan, USA, UK, 
Italy, Spain, Belgium, Canada, Germany, 
Holland and India. Of these trials, the 
most significant was the patient and 
cost–outcome study by St George’s 
Hospital, London, published in November 
2005. The importance of these trial 
results was highlighted in a Sky News item 
at that time, which featured an elderly 
patient who, following major cancer 
surgery, had her oxygen delivery 
optimised with the LiDCOplus monitor. 
Her post–operative care, managed by our 
technology, ensured that she was fit 
enough to be back at home within 10 
days, without complications, living 
independently again. Patient satisfaction 
was clearly high as she stated: “I have 
friends around me, things to do, people 
to talk to — I’m a lucky bunny”. This one 
case study demonstrates the way in 
which our technology can be harnessed 
to dramatically improve care and save 
money. We have great hopes that the 
excellent clinical results and cost savings 
achieved by St George’s Hospital in their 
patients through using our technology will 
lead to it becoming a worldwide standard 
of care in the post-operative treatment of 
major surgery patients. 
Customers
In the UK, one in four National Health 
Service (NHS) trusts is in deficit. The 
financial crisis has led to closed wards, 
cancelled operations and staff shortages 
in hospitals with managers struggling to 
meet targets and balance their books. 
Clearly, hospital customers are looking 
for technologies that improve outcomes 
while reducing costs. Our technology  
has been shown to satisfy these 
requirements. 
The results of the trial conducted by 
St George’s Hospital, London, 
demonstrated that the use of the 
LiDCOplus monitor to improve oxygen 
levels following major surgery (Early 
Goal Directed Therapy) significantly 
reduced complications (particularly 
infections). Patient stay in hospital was 
significantly shortened — by an average 
of 12 days per patient. This equated to a 
saving of on average £4,800 per patient 
treated. It has been estimated that if this 
approach were adopted by the NHS, it 
would result in a saving of £500 million 
per year. Our minimally invasive 
hemodynamic monitoring equipment 
can significantly reduce hospital costs 
and reduce risks for patients. Interest in 
this modern approach to surgical care is 
on the increase. 
 LiDCO Group Plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/6
07 CHieF eXeCUtive oFFiCer’ s 
review continued
At the fourth Evidence–Based Peri–
Operative Medicine Conference in 
London in June, a review paper* 
concluded that most of the resources  
are already available to hospitals to 
modernise the treatment of surgical 
patients, reduce costs and improve the 
outcomes from surgical intervention. 
Therefore, any additional capital  
and running costs are “marginal in 
comparison with the potential savings”. 
Of significance for the use of LiDCO’s 
technology the report concluded that 
“for hemodynamic optimisation, the 
potential savings in terms of reduced 
hospital stays have been estimated for 
an average NHS trust to be in the order 
of over £2 million, based on a reduction 
in stays of 22–31% and taking into 
account capital outlay of £60,000 and 
annual running costs of £150,000”.
given these clear clinical and 
financial benefits, we are 
working to help our hospital 
customers to adopt l iDCo’s 
advanced hemodynamic 
monitoring products. 
In doing so, we expect there will be  
a considerable benefit to patients.  
I am pleased to report that there are 
additional outcome trials taking place 
using our technology in Europe, and 
North and South America. These trials 
are expected to reinforce the message 
that LiDCO’s technology can reduce 
complications and the costs associated 
with the treatment of major surgery 
patients. Replicating the outstanding 
results achieved at St George’s Hospital in 
more countries will help sales adoption 
through the development of more localised 
business cases. 
a further major validation  
of our technology was  
seen when the Us a rmy 
purchased 31 l iDCoplus 
monitors in november 2005. 
Our product was purchased to be used  
in 16 major medical centres inside and 
outside the USA. This US$456,000 
order is the largest received to date  
by our US sales organisation. It followed  
on from the successful conclusion of an 
extensive evaluation of our technology 
conducted at Brooke Army Medical 
Center, Texas. The choice of LiDCO’s 
technology over the competition was  
a tremendous endorsement for both  
the technology and LiDCO’s US sales 
force. This order was followed by a 
further sale announced in March 2006  
of five LiDCOplus monitors to the US Air 
Force’s main medical facility, Wilford Hall 
Medical Center, in San Antonio, Texas.  
prospects
Looking to the likely sales progress in 
2006, we can see from the newspapers 
and national news that in the UK, hospitals 
are under tremendous pressure to  
save money. In other markets, similar 
pressures exist. So, despite the availability 
of our ethically and financially compelling 
outcome data, we still expect the 
adoption of our technology will take time. 
Hospitals have to become aware of the 
technology and its benefits, prepare  
a business plan, budget for the new 
equipment and then partner with  
LiDCO’s clinical educator support staff to 
implement the change at ward level. The 
market for less invasive hemodynamic 
monitoring products is growing strongly. 
The challenge for LiDCO is to keep 
strengthening its product offering and 
distribution reach, in order to participate 
fully in this growth.
LiDCO is actively searching for potential 
business acquisitions and partnerships, 
where synergistic products or distribution 
channels exist, that will support and 
enhance its own product sales. 
it is anticipated the year 
ahead will bring exciting 
opportunities for such 
strategic opportunities,  
as well as a continuation of 
the strong ongoing organic 
growth we have seen in the 
past year.
*“ Modernising Care for Patients Undergoing Major 
Clinical Efficiency” presented by the Improving 
Surgical Outcomes Group, June 2005.
LiDCO Group Plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/6
08 UK
As in the USA, our sales in the UK 
continue to be made by our direct sales 
force of seven people. Turnover in the 
UK was £1,535,000, an increase of 78% 
over the equivalent previous 12 months. 
The installed base increased by 30 units 
across the year to 152 LiDCOplus 
monitors. To have achieved an increase 
in revenues of 78% despite the very 
harsh economic climate and significant 
overspends within the NHS was an 
additional resource to our nurse education 
programme to support hospitals that wish 
to move towards a less invasive approach. 
The appointment of USA regional 
distributor partners has not been a 
success for us. Two of our distributor 
businesses were purchased during the 
year and we agreed mutually with one 
more that they were not right for the 
task. This is unfortunate given our 
potential in the USA. We are currently 
seeking new distribution support and  
will continue to develop the USA market 
with modest yearly increases in our 
direct sales force. 
Over the course of 2005 we were 
pleased to consolidate and grow our 
position in several large teaching 
hospitals including Vanderbilt University 
in Nashville, Tennessee; the University  
of Alabama; the University of Iowa and 
Duke University Medical Center in 
Durham, North Carolina. In September 
clinicians from Duke University published 
an important validation paper on our 
technology in the journal Critical Care 
Medicine. While benefiting from 
association with these prestigious 
hospitals, it is also encouraging to see 
our technology spreading into different 
departments within the individual 
centres. Doctors from all over the world 
come to these centres for training. 
Hopefully they will carry their LiDCO 
experience with them when they take up 
future positions around the globe. 
trading r eview
USA 
Our sales are made through a direct 
sales force of five people. Turnover in 
2005/6 was £1,123,000, an increase  
of 29% over the equivalent previous  
12 months. The installed base increased 
by 51 units across the year to 409 
LiDCOplus monitors.
The USA represents our biggest potential 
market. It already represents 44% of our 
installed monitor base. However, it is clear 
that in the USA the calibration of our 
monitors is still a blend of calibration with 
an invasive pulmonary artery catheter, 
which we do not supply, and the LiDCO 
System disposables. While this generates 
short–term capital income and establishes 
the LiDCOplus monitor user interfaces,  
it has the unwanted effect of limiting 
growth of our sensor–based disposable 
income. Over time we believe that this 
situation will begin to resolve itself as  
the market moves away from invasive 
catheter calibration. This trend is already 
evident. The majority of LiDCOplus 
monitors sold last year were for calibration 
with the LiDCO System disposables — 
including those sold to the US Army.  
Thus our large USA installed base remains  
a potential source of additional sensor/
disposables income. We are adding 
+29%
Usa
Sales growth
+78%
UK 
Sales growth
LiDCO Group Plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/6
09
Case st UDY
Delivering
to t He 
Us ar MY
The United States Army has purchased 31 
LiDCOplus continuous hemodynamic monitors 
to be used in 16 major medical centres inside 
and outside the US. This order of US$456,000 
for 31 LiDCOplus monitors is the largest 
received to date by our US sales organisation. 
It follows on from the successful conclusion of 
an evaluation conducted at Brooke Army  
Medical Center, Texas.
“ We are looking forward  
to utilising the LiDCOplus 
system in our facilities. 
The use of these  
monitors will provide 
immediate and more 
accurate hemodynamic 
information allowing us to 
better treat and optimise 
our critically ill patients.”
l t. Col. Kurt grathwohl MD, a ssistant Chief 
of a nesthesia at Brooke a rmy Medical 
Center, who coordinated the purchase with 
the Us MeDCo M surgeon general.
t he largest order received to date by 
our Us sales organisation
Us$456,000
 excellent result. A number of new clinical 
centres are looking to adopt our 
technology and we therefore expect  
UK sales to continue to grow well  
in 2006. The main limiting factor on 
revenue growth will most likely be  
the availability of hospital funds for  
the purchase of our equipment and 
associated disposables. The UK is 
probably the most advanced territory  
in terms of its appreciation of  
the benefits of minimally invasive 
hemodynamic monitoring products, 
which in turn leads to it being one of  
the most competitive environments.
While many UK customers have more 
than one technology, it was pleasing  
to see our technology gain traction in 
several large centres including Guys  
and St Thomas’ Hospital in London, 
Addenbrookes Hospital in Cambridge, 
the Royal Victoria Infirmary in 
Newcastle, Leicester General Hospital 
and Bristol Royal Infirmary. Clinicians 
from Guys and St Thomas’ Hospital 
ended the year with an excellent LiDCO 
validation study presentation at the 
Society of Critical Care Medicine’s annual 
meeting in San Francisco. In the majority 
of our UK customers, our position was 
consolidated and in many instances  
we saw the migration of our technology 
into other departments. Nowhere was 
this more evident than in St George’s 
Hospital, where following the publication 
our experiences and 
feedback throughout the 
year in these markets have 
been very encouraging. 
The normal process of establishing 
advocates and reference centres 
continues in these areas. In the longer-
established territories of Italy and Spain, 
progress continues to be made with very 
encouraging year-on-year growth.
Our distributors continue to be 
motivated and excited by the possibilities 
that our technology offers them. We 
expect sales to continue to increase in 
continental Europe through 2006. 
Rest of the World (ROW)
Sales in Asia, Japan and other Rest of 
World countries totalled £213,000, an 
increase of 33% on a 12 months 
equivalent basis. 
This represents slower-than-expected 
capital sales of monitors to these 
territories, resulting in an increase in 
ROW installed base of only 14. However, 
of their outcomes study, the protocol 
incorporating LiDCO’s products was 
implemented as a standard of care for  
all patients undergoing high risk major 
surgery. Following the publication of this 
important paper, other institutions have 
indicated a desire to implement this 
same approach. Hopefully we will see 
this materialise over the course of 2006 
and onwards.
Continental Europe
Turnover for the year was £550,000,  
an increase of 47% over the equivalent 
previous 12 months. 
Sales in continental Europe are made via 
a network of small distributors and now 
that registration has been achieved in 13 
territories, sales are increasing well with 
monitor placements up by 41%.
It was particularly pleasing to achieve 
registration in Denmark and Sweden, 
where our already established 
distribution partners were eager to 
commence sales. 
+47%
europe 
Sales growth
+33%
r est of world 
Sales growth
LiDCO Group Plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/6
10
CHieF eXeCUtive oFFiCer’ s 
review continued we are starting to see encouraging 
growth in sales of sensors into the ROW 
installed base, as newly appointed 
distributors in countries such as Brazil 
develop their local markets. Brazil, where 
marketing activities commenced during 
the year, is the largest medical market in 
Latin America. We expect further growth 
of sales of disposables and additional 
monitor sales in the ROW in 2006.
t he most significant market 
for hemodynamic monitoring 
after the Usa is Japan. 
The market in Japan is dominated by the 
invasive pulmonary artery catheter, for 
which there is a high reimbursement  
rate for hospitals. Having purchased  
100 PulseCO monitors in 2003, our 
distributor, Nipro Corporation, is currently 
selling these to Japanese hospitals via  
a capital sales route for calibration with a 
pulmonary artery catheter. Clinical trial 
results from Japanese university centres 
and customer response to the product 
have been encouraging. 
Following these positive signs from 
Japanese customers, Nipro Corporation 
is currently engaged in establishing the 
clinical trials necessary to achieve a 
hospital reimbursement code for the  
use of our product. We do not expect 
significant additional monitor sales in 
Japan until this has been achieved by 
sometime in 2007. Licence fees of 
£70,000 are included within sales, 
relating to the original agreement with 
Nipro Corporation.
r esearch and development  
and product applications
LiDCOplus monitor software version 3.0 
and Philips VueLink 
This new software was launched in 
March 2005. The majority of customers 
have now elected to upgrade to the new 
software, which includes a number of 
additional new product features, 
including a communications link 
(VueLink interface) between LiDCO’s 
proprietary stand–alone monitoring 
system and Philips’ patient monitors.  
The added functionality, which allows the 
monitor to communicate with Philips  
and other third–party hospital 
information systems, is becoming a 
mandatory feature for a hemodynamic 
monitor. The version 3.0 software also 
has a number of enhancements that allow 
data to be downloaded to a USB key 
device and/or real-time download of 
heart–beat data via a non–proprietary 
ethernet connection. 
It is our goal to introduce a new version of 
the LiDCOplus monitor software each year 
and thereby keep our products ahead of the 
competition. Our target for 2006 is to 
introduce the new version 4.0 software, 
most likely sometime in the second quarter. 
The version 4.0 will include a number of 
significant improvements and a new 
measurement, the intra-thoracic blood 
volume (ITBV).
The version 4.0 software will include 
improvements to fluid management  
and oxygen delivery targeting. This will 
include a new event-response feature,  
or intelligent fluid assessment screen, 
that will allow the detection of fluid 
responsiveness and response to  
fluid administration in ventilated, or 
spontaneously breathing, patients. 
Monitoring fluids in non-ventilated 
patients has been a significant  
technical challenge. 
our new software will  
be seen as a significant 
advance.
In order to help hospitals implement 
Early Goal Directed Therapy (EGDT),  
St George’s Hospital’s high risk surgery 
protocol, the clinician/nurse will now also 
be able to set a visual and individualised 
oxygen delivery target on the Graph 
Screen. This will be a unique feature and 
will help simplify the management of the 
patients scheduled for advanced 
hemodynamic monitoring protocols  
such as the St George’s Hospital EGDT. 
Case st UDY
The results of the trial conducted by St George’s 
Hospital, London demonstrated that the use of 
the LiDCOplus monitor to improve oxygen 
levels following major surgery (Early Goal 
Directed Therapy) significantly reduced 
complications (particularly infections). Patient 
stay in hospital was significantly shortened by 
an average of 12 days per patient. This equated 
to a saving of on average £4,800 per patient 
treated.
These results are highly significant and, if 
replicated in other hospitals in the UK, could 
ensure a widespread reduction in risk 
associated with major surgery.
“ The resulting improvement  
in patient outcomes and 
shorter hospital stay will  
not just mean more patient 
beds available, but ensure 
massive cost savings if 
implemented throughout  
the NHS. St George’s 
Hospital saved £1.8 million 
last year by implementing  
this simple protocol.”
David Bennett, professor of intensive Care 
Medicine at st george’s Hospital
re DUCing
Costs at 
st george’ s 
Hospital
average saving per patient treated 
when using the l iDCoplus monitor
£4,800
LiDCO Group Plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/6
11 If venous blood saturation values are 
available, the version 4.0 software  
will calculate the oxygen delivery and 
consumption, i.e. how much of the 
oxygen is being consumed by the body. 
This feature will again be useful in 
detecting levels of oxygen delivery  
that are inadequate and may lead to 
organ failure.
Finally, the version 4.0 software will have 
a number of changes to the calibration 
procedure that focus on ease of use  
and improved quality checks and user  
help screens.
New measurement: the intra-thoracic 
blood volume (ITBV) 
Accurate measurement of the volume of 
blood in the thorax could be of significant 
benefit to patients and should widen the 
attraction of the LiDCOplus monitor to 
doctors working in intensive–care units. 
This development takes away the need 
to insert an invasive catheter into the 
central venous system, and heart or 
major artery, which is the currently 
established technique for taking the 
measurements.
The ITBV measurement is scheduled  
to be introduced in the second quarter  
of 2006. The lithium ion injection is 
currently used by LiDCO as a marker 
substance to measure cardiac output. 
Combining this existing measurement 
with the time taken for the lithium 
marker to transit from the injection point 
to the LiDCO sensor provides a new 
measurement, the ITBV. Physicians 
endeavour to increase the blood volume 
in order to rehydrate patients in surgery, 
trauma and intensive–care locations. 
Correct fluid management improves 
cardiac performance and critically, the 
oxygen delivery to vital organs that has 
been shown to reduce hospital bed stay. 
The ITBV is a much more sensitive guide 
to the fluid management of patients than 
the traditional invasive catheter–based 
measurement of pulmonary artery 
wedge pressure.
l iDCo expects that this  
new measurement will have 
widespread application in the 
improved fluid management 
of patients.
New applications for LiDCO’s Minimally 
Invasive Monitoring System
Important progress has been made in 
taking LiDCO’s technology into new 
markets.
Obstetric use
Positive data was presented at the 
Society of Obstetric Anesthesia and 
Perinatology meeting held in June 2005 
in Palm Springs, California, USA. Doctors 
at the Departments of Anesthesiology  
& Obstetrics and Gynecology, University 
of Texas Health Science Center, San 
Antonio, Texas, reported that the 
LiDCOplus monitor, used to observe 
cardiovascular changes during 
continuous epidural anaesthesia in a 
patient undergoing caesarean section, 
was able to safely maintain cardiac 
output and blood pressure monitoring 
where this would not otherwise have 
been possible without the use of an 
invasive catheter. This department is  
one of a number of university centres 
actively investigating the potential 
applications of the LiDCO technology to 
the anaesthetic management of high risk 
obstetric patients. We expect this may 
develop as a valuable niche market 
following publication of further positive 
clinical reports.
Veterinary use
A paper from the Royal Veterinary 
Hospital, London, validating the 
LiDCOplus monitor for use in the care of 
horses during surgery was published in 
July. This is the first time that LiDCO’s 
proprietary software, providing 
continuous pulse contour cardiovascular 
monitoring, has been demonstrated to 
be applicable in horses. The paper was 
entitled: “Use of Lithium dilution and 
pulse contour analysis cardiac output 
determination in anaesthetised horses:  
a clinical evaluation” — G. Hallowell &  
LiDCO Group Plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/6
12
CHieF eXeCUtive oFFiCer’ s 
review continued K. Corley, Veterinary Anaesthesia and 
Analgesia, 2005, 32, 201—211. The paper 
concluded that LiDCO’s method of pulse 
contour analysis is a relatively non–
invasive and reliable way of monitoring 
continuous cardiac output in horses 
under anaesthesia. The paper also 
concluded that the ability to easily 
monitor continuous cardiac output might 
decrease morbidity and mortality in the 
anaesthetised horses. 
we are beginning to develop 
a significant niche market in 
veterinary practice.
LiDCO’s Clinical Advisory Board
We were delighted to announce in June 
2005 that Professor David Bennett has 
joined our Clinical Advisory Board. 
professor Bennett was the 
Director of the intensive 
Care Unit, st george’s 
Hospital, for more than 25 
years, and he is a member  
of the editorial Board of 
intensive Care Medicine  
and Critical Care. 
He is internationally renowned for his 
pioneering work on the application of 
less invasive cardiovascular monitoring 
to improve outcomes and reduce costs 
associated with the treatment of risk 
surgery patients. 
The Board was further strengthened in 
October 2005 by the appointment of 
Professor Michael Pinsky, Professor of 
Critical Care Medicine, Bioengineering 
and Anesthesiology, at the University of 
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, USA. He 
is also a member of the editorial board of 
the American Journal of Respiratory and 
Critical Care Medicine, Intensive Care 
Medicine, Critical Care journal and 
Critical Care Forum. He is Editor–in–Chief 
of the eMedicine textbook Critical Care 
Medicine. He has a wide range of 
research interests — among them being 
the study of heart–lung interactions, 
hemodynamic monitoring, 
cardiovascular physiology, sepsis and 
outcomes research. He is a world–leading 
authority on the application of both 
existing invasive, and the more recent 
minimally invasive, monitoring 
technologies to optimise cardiovascular 
physiology and thereby improve 
outcomes in critically ill patients. 
r egulatory affairs
Lithium Chloride mutual recognition 
approvals in five further European 
territories
Lithium Chloride is used in conjunction 
with the LiDCOplus system to provide an 
absolute measure of a patient’s cardiac 
output. During the period, we announced 
five further European country approvals 
for the Lithium Chloride injection for  
use with the LiDCOplus system in the 
territories of: Denmark, Ireland, Norway, 
Sweden and Bulgaria. These latest 
registrations now provide LiDCO with  
full marketing approval in 13 European 
countries. 
Further applications through a third 
wave application to the Mutual 
Recognition Procedure are scheduled for 
the Lithium Chloride injection in the 
second quarter of 2006. Full marketing 
approvals are expected to start coming 
through in the last quarter of this year, 
with sales commencing in 2007 in 
France, Greece and Slovenia.
Dr terry o ’Brien
Chief Executive Officer
LiDCO Group Plc
LiDCO Group Plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005/6
13
Case st UDY
 in Creasing
 sales
no. 1
We are not just providing a product, but  
also educational and in-service support  
in a partnership with our distributors  
and customers. In all aspects of our  
work we have achieved a high degree  
of professionalism in our approach. This 
comment from one of our distributors, one 
of many received from distributors and 
customers during the year, sums up the 
superb efforts made by all the sales and 
marketing department during the year. 
“ The sales team at LiDCO 
are the best and most 
competent I have ever seen 
in this business. Their 
performance and knowledge 
is superb which makes a  
big difference to the clients. 
I strongly believe LiDCO  
as a method will become 
dominant in our market 
within a year or two and this 
will definitely be a result of 
our mutual commitment.”
