 Validation studies by leading
centres continued to endorse the
strengths of our technology within
the medical community and our
products continued to win
accolades from key opinion
leaders.
LiDCO Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006/7
4
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT LiDCO Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006/7
5
During the year ended 31
January 2007 we continued to
pursue our strategy of
strengthening the Company’s
position by marketing our highly
accurate, IP-protected minimally
invasive hemodynamic
monitoring products in
territories across the world.
Our products are developed, manufactured
and assembled under strict quality standards
in our facility at Hoxton, London and sold
through our direct sales force in the UK and
US, and via distributors in 15 other countries.
Product development continued, both
incrementally in response to market feedback
and more substantially on product
innovations, to expand further the use and
applicability of our products in a range of
hospital settings. Validation studies by leading
centres continued to endorse the strengths of
our technology within the medical community
and our products continued to win accolades
from key opinion leaders.
Overall sales for the year were at a similar
level to the previous year, at £3.44 million,
split 44% and 56% between capital and
disposables/annuity sales. Growth in sales,
especially in the first half of the year, was
hindered by competitor activity, particularly in
the US, and in the UK by the NHS freeze on
capital expenditure which lasted until well
into the year. However, cash outflow before
financing was 28% better than the prior year
and UK sales continued their trend of strong
annual growth, increasing by 31% to £2.01
million. At the year-end the Group’s cash
position stood at £1.47 million; in addition,
approximately £1 million remains available for
draw-down under the Laurus convertible
loan facility.
In May 2006, the Company raised £3.5
million (£3.2 million after expenses) to finance
the strengthening of its direct sales force and
further product development, repay
substantially all the outstanding Laurus loan
(approx £1.1 million) and provide working
capital. On behalf of the Board I would like to
thank our investors for their continued
support of the Company.
In September 2006, an agreement was
signed with Med-Dynamix, whereby their
urine monitoring products are sold in the
UK through LiDCO’s high quality sales
team. Our respective products are
complementary in potentially enabling more
complete fluid monitoring information in the
critical care environment.
The Group’s finance director, Hugh McGarel-
Groves resigned in January. Interim
arrangements have been made until a
replacement is appointed.
Looking ahead, we will continue to pursue
our current strategy of strengthening the
value of the Company through further
growing revenues, both through our
strengthened sales force and existing
distribution network as well as through new
collaborative and distribution arrangements.
In addition, we will continue to invest in the
development of new products, namely
LiDCOlive and our anesthesia offering. In
managing these activities and the business
generally, we will continue to maintain careful
control of costs.
Finally, I would like to thank
all the Group’s staff and
Directors for their dedication
and hard work during the year
and our Clinical Advisory Board
for their continuing support
and enthusiasm.
Theresa Wallis
Chairman
LiDCO Group Plc
