 LiDCO Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006/7
6
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
Hospitals purchasing our
technology are buying into a
proven strong clinical case
coupled to a very compelling
business case. LiDCO Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006/7
7
Introduction
Expectations for last year were high following
on from 2005/2006 in which revenues
increased by more than 50% (annualised).
Disappointingly however, sales progress was
slowed by a combination of disruptive
competition and a temporary capital
equipment freeze in the UK. As a result,
turnover for the year was virtually unchanged
from the previous year, while losses
increased marginally, mostly due to non-
recurring items. Nevertheless, LiDCO still
made substantial progress and a healthy
growth rate has now resumed at the
beginning of 2007. Of particular note, despite
the NHS capital freeze for a substantial part
of the year, the Company increased UK sales
revenue by 31%. This growth was supported
by further outcome studies like the St
George’s study – which continue to influence
positively the presentation of our clinical and
business cases. Last year our world-wide
installed base of monitors increased from
923 to 1,035 units with a substantial increase
in placements seen in the second half of the
year that are now contributing to growing
disposable sales.
Prior year and current trading
Given LiDCO’s continuing revenue growth in
the UK, the slowing of sales experienced
during the period was confined to our export
markets. The majority of the sales shortfall
against expectations related to delayed
revenue from our installed base and sales
pipeline in the US market. Sensor sales from
our existing installed base and new
evaluations of our products were delayed
and prolonged by a major US competitor
seeking the trialing of its products. This had
the effect of both slowing the completion of
new equipment sales and temporarily
suppressing disposable sales in existing
accounts while customers evaluated the new
product offering.
I am pleased to say that, although disruptive
to our business in 2006, these activities have
not resulted in the permanent loss of a
material amount of our US business. Indeed,
by the end of the year US sensor unit sales
were only down 5% over the prior period.
Looking beyond the US, despite
experiencing similar delays in monitor
sales/placements, sensor disposable sales
revenues were significantly up in all other
territories (17% UK, 23% Europe and 53%
ROW). Pricing remained strong over the
period with gross margin maintained at 77%
(excluding fees paid for monitors placed
through financing arrangements).
The Company expects the factors that held
back growth in 2006/7 to be of less
significance in 2007/8 and has already seen
a substantial increase in monitor placements
feeding through to growth in the recurring
disposable income.
Trading in the first two
months of this year has seen a
62% increase in total revenue
compared to February and
March in 2006.
Monitor consumables revenue over the same
period are up by 35% and sales growth in the
USA has increased 68%, admittedly a figure
which flatters because of the disappointment
of the prior year. Although it is just a little early
to know whether these trends will continue
throughout the year - LiDCO starts the
current year on an optimistic note. A clearer
picture should emerge by the time of our
Annual General Meeting.
Market trends and LiDCO’s response
In 2004 the USA spent $1.9 trillion on
healthcare or 16% of GDP (Rothschild’s
market report). Healthcare spending is
estimated to be $4.0 trillion by 2015. This is
$6,300 per person in 2004 and predicted to
be $12,300 by 2015. In 2004 US healthcare
provided 13.5 million jobs and 19% or 3.6
million new employment positions will be in
healthcare - more than any other industry.
The ageing population, coupled to physician
and nursing shortages means that
hemodynamic monitoring will benefit from
this increasing expenditure as a growing
number of monitored beds will be required
by hospitals. In tandem we are seeing
demand for integrated clinical information
and patient management solutions to
increase efficiency of staff, reduce hospital
errors and facilitate clinical review and audit.
Customers are also beginning
to request further improvements
in the functionality of the
LiDCOplus Monitor and
associated software products
that allow patient monitoring
by a physician at a site remote
from the intensive care unit.
Given the above macroeconomics it is not
surprising that overall the transition to
minimally invasive hemodynamic monitoring
is continuing apace. During the year, we
estimate the minimally invasive
cardiovascular monitoring market grew by
more than 50%, from US$40 million to
approximately US$67 million per annum
(summary of company published data). The
underlying market dynamics, therefore,
remain very encouraging for sales of our
leading-edge minimally invasive
hemodynamic monitoring technology.
The clinical and business case for adoption
of our products continues to grow. This past
year has seen the conclusion and
subsequent presentation of two additional
clinical outcome studies using LiDCO’s
technology. These studies showed
reductions in mortality, length of stay and
complications in surgery and shock patients.
Given the market dynamics it is not
surprising that the market leader for the
declining traditional invasive catheter based
approach has responded with its own
minimally invasive product and that
customers would at least want to evaluate
this technology. We know from our own experience that this
first phase of the roll-out of a new technology
will be crucial as customers compare the
new technology to existing standards of care.
We believe that accuracy is crucial to the
care of both critically ill patients and the
provision of Early Goal Directed Therapy
(EGDT) to surgery patients.
LiDCO has the only calibrated
arterial pressure waveform
monitor that has been shown
to improve outcomes and
reduce hospital stay in high risk
surgery patients.
This is a crucial and increasingly important
marketing edge. Avoiding complications in
this group of patients can drastically reduce
a hospital’s costs. Complications from
critically ill patients can cost hospitals a
disproportionate amount. The LiDCO
system helps reduce those complications
and costs. This is important as we are now
living in an era when hospital revenues are
largely fixed, so the costs and complications
of surgery have necessarily come under
considerable scrutiny.
A case in point is St George’s Hospital,
London who showed that they had saved on
average £4,800 per patient treated using
LiDCO products to implement EGDT and are
now treating all such patients through use of
our technology. We have worked hard to
provide an accurate and effective product
that can materially lower a hospital’s costs
when treating high-risk surgery patients.
Hospitals purchasing our
technology are buying into a
proven strong clinical case
coupled with a very compelling
business proposition. It is for
the competition to match the
existing standards set by
our technology.
Development and sales /
marketing strategy
Our development strategy continues to be to
respond quickly to market opportunities
providing solutions that differentiate ourselves
from the competition through providing the
most highly evolved hemodynamic
monitoring products. The development of the
version 4.0 software and the new LiDCO PC
products LiDCOview (launched) and
LiDCOlive (in development) are LiDCO’s
response to these customer-led market
requirements.
The LiDCOplus Monitor consequently has
always commanded a premium price and we
expect that our product developments will
ensure that this continues to be the case.
Our challenges and risks for 2007/8 are
therefore not so much on the technical front
but rather to ensure that we participate in the
revenue that is increasingly being spent as
the market transitions to minimally invasive
hemodynamic monitoring. We have spent
significant energies in 2006/7 securing
business, building our sales pipeline and
developing new software products. In
2007/8, we should see the fruits from our
investment in our business and existing
relationships to both grow existing business
and expand into new hospitals. However, we
do not have the same sales and marketing
resources as our larger competitors so we
have to be more efficient and targeted in our
activities. While recognizing we need
additional sales resource in our export
territories, last year 58% of our sales came
from the UK market, where we have a strong
direct sales force. We estimate the market for
hemodynamic monitoring products in the UK
to be around £7m per annum. We have
annual UK sales of £2m so there is a very
significant amount of existing business for us
to take in a territory where we compete on a
more equal footing with the competition.
In the USA we are clearly still under
resourced to fully access the market
opportunity. Nevertheless, the US is our
second biggest market and we expect to
make good progress this year. We have to
be highly focused on regions where we have
sales people and where we can expect that
our established base of opinion leading
university hospital accounts will have the
maximum impact. Of course we will continue
to seek sales partnerships in this most
important market.
LiDCO Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006/7
8
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
Continued
Background
Previous findings on the use of LiDCO’s
technology in high-risk surgery patients have
shown that achieving and maintaining
increased oxygen delivery immediately after
major surgery significantly reduces the
patients’ risk of post-operative complications
by more than one third and also reduces the
length of time spent in hospital by an average
of 12 days (St George’s Hospital, London
study). Implementation of a similar strategy in
other hospitals across the NHS could result
in estimated savings of £500 million annually.
Two further studies from investigators in the
USA and Brazil show that use of LiDCO’s
technology improves clinical outcomes in
both high-risk surgery patients and patients
admitted to intensive care for treatment for
shock. In high-risk surgery patients use of
LiDCO for the application of early goal
CASE STUDY
IMPROVING OUTOMES IN SURGERY
AND SHOCK PATIENTS LiDCO Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006/7
9
In European export markets we are seeing
increasing commitment from our distribution
partners. In most cases they are gaining
confidence as the market grows and a
number are employing extra sales staff
specifically to promote our products. We still
have weaknesses in some European
territories – notably in Germany where we
and our distributor partner are under-
resourced to compete in such a large market
against a heavily entrenched local competitor.
In the rest of the world we expect the main
development during the coming year to be
the appointment of more distributors in the
Middle East, where we expect to find
significant demand in the considerable
hospital expansion that is occurring.
Product quality
Commercial success has to be
underpinned by manufacturing
excellence. Once again I am
delighted to report that our
product quality and customer
feedback continues to be
first-rate.
Furthermore, our in-house manufacturing
automation and partnerships with our
component suppliers will continue to reduce
the cost of sales and help improve margins.
Trading review
UK
Overall sales revenue up 31% to £2,012,000
(2005/6: £1,535,000)
Monitor sales revenue up 53% to £921,000
(2005/6: £603,000)
Sensor, fee for use & rental sales up 17%
to £1,091,000 (2005/6: £932,000)
Sensor, fee for use units up 16% at 11,041
(2005/6: 9,521)
As in the USA, sales in the UK continue to
be made by our direct sales force. 2006/7
was a particularly challenging year for NHS
finances so achieving an increase in revenues
of 31% was an excellent result. A number of
university hospitals converted to our
technology. In particular, we were delighted
that in September 2006 the new
cardiothoracic surgery department at
Southampton University Healthcare Trust
Hospital chose to purchase six of our
LiDCOplus monitors, taking the total number
of monitors at this hospital to 14.
Despite the UK being one of the most
developed and hence competitive markets
for hemodynamic monitoring we remain
optimistic that the UK market will continue to
grow at a brisk pace within both the high risk
surgery and intensive care settings.
‘The use of a therapeutic
approach guided by oxygen
delivery calculated by the
LiDCOplus Monitor, intra-operatively
and post-operatively, is a feasible
and practical approach to guide
oxygen delivery optimization
therapy during major surgeries
in high-risk patients. Better
perfusion of vital organs resulting
in a much lower rate of
complications, mortality and
duration of hospital stay were seen
in the optimized patients.’
Dr Susan Lobo, São José do Rio Preto
‘We were impressed by the
difference in both mortality and
length of stay among the various
monitors. This is an important
finding which deserves further
study. Since the introduction of
LiDCO, the number of patients
monitored has increased due to
its less invasive nature while the
rate of pulmonary artery
catheter usage has reduced.’
Professor Steve Hata, University of Iowa
directed therapy both during and immediately
post surgery reduces hospital length of stay
by over 50% (13 to 6 days) and reduces
mortality from 27% to 6%.
In shock patients it reduces the mortality
rate of patients from 32% to 12%, when
compared to patients treated with the older
more traditional invasive technology
(pulmonary artery catheter).
01 02 03 04/5 05/6 06/7
12 months
113
300
706
860
1,535
2,012
UK sales
£’000
+
31%
UK
Sales growth USA
Overall sales revenue down 32% to
£767,000 (2005/6: £1,123,000)
Monitor sales revenue down 54% to
£263,000 (2005/6: £572,000)
Sensor, fee for use & rental sales down 9%
to £504,000 (2005/6: £551,000)
Sensor, fee for use units down 6% at 8,250
(2005/6: 8,741)
Our sales in the US are made through a
direct sales force of six people. The market
was clearly very competitive in the US in
2006/7. Sales in the US were delayed by
more protracted evaluations as a result of
targeted defensive action by our main US-
based competitor demanding that their
products should also be evaluated by our
prospective customers. This is the inevitable
consequence of both a developing market
opportunity and our successes in the US
market. We are still the only non - US
company to make any significant headway in
the market while competing against a very
strong domestic market leader. As
mentioned we have had a good start to
monitor sales and placements since January
and we have not lost any significant
customer. We expect to see a return of US
sales growth in 2007.
Continental Europe
Overall sales revenue down 7% to £511,000
(2005/6: £550,000)
Monitor sales revenue down 29% to
£225,000 (2005/6: £317,000)
Sensor, fee for use & rental sales up 23% to
£286,000 (2005/6: £233,000)
Sensor, fee for use units up 17% at 4,260
(2005/6: 3,650)
The reduction in monitor sales was mostly a
consequence of variances in capital stocking
orders to distributors between the periods.
We are still effectively rolling out the product
in Europe, so revenue variances will arise.
Additionally, as in the US, competitive
activities effectively held back sales by a few
months. Nevertheless, the disposable sales
increase demonstrates good usage from the
installed base of monitors. Our distributors
are motivated and excited by the revenue
possibilities that our technology offers them.
We have more work to do in Europe in
particular in Germany, Holland and Belgium
where we would like to improve on our
distribution support. We expect 2007 will see
a return to significant revenue growth in the
European market.
Rest of the World (‘ROW’)
Overall sales revenue down 28% to
£153,000 (2005/6: £213,000)
Monitor sales revenue down 69% to £34,000
(2005/6: £111,000)
Sensor, fee for use & rental sales up 53% to
£49,000 (2005/6: £32,000)
Sensor, fee for use units up 21% at 765
(2005/6: 630)
This is our smallest territory and is highly
influenced by the phasing of monitor sales to
distributors. We anticipate growth in this
territory both through sales to existing
partners and the appointment of additional
distributors in 2007.
Sales progress in Japan through our
distributor has been disappointing. Japan
is the second biggest market in the world
for hemodynamic monitoring products.
Crucial to success in this territory is
achieving hospital reimbursement for our
product. Our distributor is selling or
renting/leasing our product to hospitals
without this benefit at the moment. Whilst
there has been some adoption of LiDCO
technology and a favorable technical
reception we are in discussions on ways
to resolve this slow progress.
LiDCO Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006/7
10
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
Continued
Background
Accurately measuring the volume of blood in
the thorax could be of significant benefit to
patients and should widen the attraction of its
system to doctors working in intensive care.
Importantly, this development will take away
the need to insert an invasive catheter into
the central venous system, and heart or major
artery, which is the currently established
technique for taking this measurement.
The ITBV measurement is part of the product
improvements and new features introduced
in the version 4.0 software. The lithium ion
injection is currently used by LiDCO as a
marker substance to measure cardiac
output. Combining this existing measurement
with the time taken for the lithium marker to
transit from the injection point to the LiDCO
sensor provides a new measurement –
the ITBV.
CASE STUDY
INTRODUCTION OF A NEW
MEASUREMENT, NAMELY THE INTRA-
THORACIC BLOOD VOLUME (ITBV) LiDCO Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006/7
11
Clinical Outcome Data
In March, the University of Iowa presented
the results of their clinical outcome audit,
where our technology’s effects on patient
outcome were compared to those achieved
with more traditional monitoring products.
The results of this study were presented at
the International Society of Intensive Care
and Emergency Medicine (ISICEM ) meeting
in Brussels in March.
When compared to the
outcome for patients treated
with the older more traditional
invasive technology (pulmonary
artery catheter) the use of our
technology reduced the
mortality rate of patients in
shock treated in intensive care
from 32% to 12%.
This result is a demonstration of the potential
of our technology to not only improve results
in surgical patients but also in shock
patients, who are a much more complex and
difficult to treat group. This study will be of
great interest to the intensive care
community in the USA and further afield.
Also in March at the ISICEM we announced
that a surgery patients study was presented
by the Division of Critical Care, Faculdade de
Medicina de são José do Rio Preto, Brazil.
LiDCO's technology was used to optimise
hemodynamics both during the surgery itself,
as well as for eight hours post operatively.
The additional surgical period of optimisation
was undertaken in order to see if the
excellent results seen in the previous UK St
George's study could be taken one step
further by even earlier intervention. This study
demonstrated that LiDCOplus monitor
mediated EGDT reduced hospital length of
stay by half (6 days versus 13) in the control
group and also reduced mortality, only two
patients (6%) dying against seven (27%) in
the non treated historical controls.
Complications in the EGDT treated patients
were also halved.
The results of this trial and the
Iowa data are very supportive to
our US and other export
markets, showing, as already
demonstrated in the UK, that use
of our accurate and minimally
invasive monitoring product will
produce considerable clinical and
cost benefits for the patient and
hospital. The benefits of
hemodynamic monitoring clearly
outweigh the investment required
to adopt this approach.
‘The lithium ion based
measurement of ITBV
significantly augments the utility
of the LiDCOplus Monitor.
I believe this parameter will prove
to be highly useful in the
management of cardiac
performance to optimise
oxygen delivery in patients
requiring fluid replacement. The
availability of this measurement
should substantially increase
the market potential for use of
our patent protected lithium
based technology.’
Dr Terry O’Brien,
Chief Executive of LiDCO
Physicians endeavour to increase the
thoracic blood volume in order to
rehydrate patients in surgery, trauma and
intensive care locations. Correct fluid
management improves cardiac performance
and critically the oxygen delivery to vital
organs that has been shown to reduce
hospital bed stay. The ITBV is a much
more sensitive guide to the fluid management
of patients than the traditional invasive
catheter based measurement of pulmonary
artery wedge pressure. LiDCO expects
that this new measurement will have
widespread application in the improved
fluid management of patients. Research and Development and
Product Applications
LiDCOplus Monitor Software Version 4.0,
LiDCOview, LiDCOlive & LiDCOlite
2006 to March 2007 was a very productive
period for us. At our research day at St
Thomas’ Hospital we demonstrated our new
version 4.0 software and clinical research /
clinical audit software (LiDCOview).
This version comprises an enhanced fluid
management platform and enables
measurement of a new parameter, intra
thoracic blood volume (ITBV). This and our
other new software products are designed to
increase usability within the existing intensive
care patient market, and also enhance use
within an emerging high risk surgery patient
market where fluid management and the
targeting of oxygen delivery is important.
In order to help hospitals implement Early
Goal Directed Therapy (EGDT), St George’s
Hospital’s high risk surgery protocol, the
clinician/nurse is now able to set a visual and
patient specific oxygen delivery target on the
monitor’s Graph Screen.
Following implementation of the treatment
protocol, the patient’s LiDCOview file can
then be downloaded and used on a PC with
Windows software to fully evaluate the
treatment given. This has the benefit of
allowing hospitals implementing EGDT to
achieve a quantitative analysis/audit of the
hemodynamic parameters, in particular the
time taken to achieve the oxygen delivery
goals and average oxygen delivery achieved
post operatively. Achieving specific goals for
oxygen delivery has been shown to reduce
hospital stay by an average of 12 days.
LiDCOlive remote patient viewing software
allows hemodynamic data to be exported
real-time to a computer at a remote location
via the internet. In March we demonstrated
that the LiDCOplus Monitor can export real-
time hemodynamic data via the internet
direct to a computer at a remote location.
A patient being treated at Frimley Park
Hospital in England was monitored in real
time by physicians attending a meeting in
Kobe, Japan and similarly a patient in the
University Hospital in Olomouc, Czech
Republic, was remotely monitored at a
meeting in Brno.
The doctors attending the meetings could
see exactly the same data and trending data
display via our product LiDCOlive as did the
nurses looking after the patient. The ability of
a senior physician to see the same data as
the nurse, without having to always attend
the ward, is a much more efficient use of a
highly trained and increasingly stretched
clinical resource. Potentially this enables a
physician to monitor the hemodynamic status
of several patients in different locations. The
LiDCOlive software product will be of great
interest to hospitals that are looking to find
ways of coping with the growing shortage of
critical care staff. We expect that this product
will be ready for launch towards the end of
2007 to early 2008.
LiDCO’s anesthesia offering
Hospitals can now start to see the additional
advantages of an investment in the
LiDCOplus monitor and the associated
LiDCO software products. These are
targeted at producing both clinical and
productivity improvements that are not
available from our competitors. The majority
of our customers are working in intensive
care locations, however, we are increasingly
seeing requests and actual usage during
anesthesia. Accordingly, we are developing a
new product that is specifically designed for
use in the operating room by anesthetists.
The objective is to produce a simple to set
up product with new user screens that focus
on fluid management and optimisation of
blood flow. We will keep the market informed
of developments in this anesthesia market.
LiDCO Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006/7
12
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
Continued
Background
The number of monitored beds in hospitals
is steadily increasing and now represents
10% of all in-patient beds and approximately
30% of a hospital’s revenues. Hemodynamic
monitoring guided fluid and drug therapy
enables the maintenance of key physiological
parameters such as cardiac output and
oxygen delivery, thereby significantly reducing
complications and costs associated with
treatment of high-risk patients. The growing
shortage of the highly skilled intensive care
staff necessary to care for these patients
has created a requirement for a monitoring
technology that not only provides real
time hemodynamic data but also allows
the more efficient use of existing clinical
staff’s expertise.
The LiDCOlive Product – towards the ‘virtual
ICU’. One way of achieving this is to take
both the patient data and monitor display to
the clinician irrespective of physical location.
LiDCO is therefore developing a software
product called LiDCOlive that can display the
LiDCOplus Monitor trend screen and real
time patient data on any PC or laptop
anywhere - in or out of the hospital.
The requirement is that the customer has a
LiDCOplus Monitor at the patient’s bedside
that is connected to the hospital network and
then on to the internet. The clinician can then
log on externally to the hospital’s server with
a standard PC and see exactly the same
data and screen display as the nurse at the
CASE STUDY
DEMONSTRATION OF A NEW
REMOTE HEMODYNAMIC MONITORING
PRODUCT – LIDCOlive LiDCO Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006/7
13
Further applications for LiDCO's Minimally
Invasive Monitoring System
Important progress has been made in taking
LiDCO’s technology into a number of niche
markets. During the year a number of
presentations and papers were published on
the LiDCO technology in the obstetric and
veterinary arenas.
In January 2007, LiDCO announced the
publication of a study conducted by the
Department of Pediatrics at Baylor College of
Medicine, Texas. The study investigated the
accuracy of the LiDCO arterial waveform
power approach (LiDCO’s PulseCO software)
to continuously measure cardiac output in
children undergoing cardiac catheterization.
This technique had not been previously
validated in pediatric patients. The study,
published in Pediatric Critical Care Medicine
2006 (Volume 7: Issue 6 Pages 532-535)
stated that: ‘Arterial pulse wave analysis by
the PulseCO system provided a novel,
minimally invasive method of determining
real-time cardiac output in children’. Until
now it has been difficult and risky to measure
cardiac output in sick children.
This study therefore demonstrates a new
clinical application for our technology and we
are very excited about the possibility of our
technology being used to enable EGDT in
children. Our technology is licensed to be
used in children above the weight of 40 kgs
but this paper has encouraged us to
consider a US application for extension of
our technology’s use to children below 40kgs
in weight.
Regulatory affairs
In June 2006, approval of the LiDCO System
lithium chloride injection was received from
the Swiss regulatory body Swissmedic.
This latest registration now provides LiDCO
with full marketing approval in 14
European countries.
Dr Terry O’Brien
Chief Executive Officer
bedside. The clinician and nurse can then
discuss potential treatment approaches and
both immediately and simultaneously see the
effects of their agreed change in fluid or drug
therapy. This ‘virtual ICU’ approach using
LiDCO’s technology has the potential to
considerably improve the care of high-risk
patients and make savings to hospitals
budgets. The LiDCOlive was demonstrated
both in Japan (Kobe) during the Japanese
Intensive Care Society meeting and in a
critical care meeting in Brno, Czech Republic
during the first week of March. At both
meetings patients were monitored remotely,
with live patient data being sent via the
internet from the University Hospital in
Olomouc, Moravia and Frimley Park Hospital,
Surrey, UK.
‘We are delighted to be the first
hospital to implement the
LiDCOlive remote patient viewing
software. In the critical care
environment the ability to remotely
monitor a patient’s hemodynamic
data represents a significant step
forward. With remote access to
LiDCO’s advanced minimally
invasive monitoring technology we
are able to assist colleagues at the
bedside to make the best
treatment decisions for our
patients. Clearly the ability to see
LiDCO’s advanced user interfaces
from a remote PC as if one were
at the bedside makes treatment
decisions much more meaningful.
One now has the ability to solicit
remote expert opinion as if they
were with you in the intensive
care unit. In terms of patient care
the impact of time and distance
on the delivery of experience and
expert knowledge, to the bedside
are considerably diminished.’
Dr. Loua Shaikh
Department of Critical Care Medicine,
Frimley Park Hospital, UK
