 We expect to increase further our
distributor network this year in the EU,
the USA and the Rest of the World,
whilst maintaining our direct sales forces
in the UK and USA.
LiDCO Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007/8
4
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
LiDCO_FRONT_0708_aw:LiDCO REP_FRONT_0708_aw  21/5/08  15:53  Page 4 LiDCO Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007/8
5
Over the last year we have
pursued our strategy of growing
sales of our hemodynamic
monitoring products in a range
of geographical regions across
the globe whilst maintaining
careful control of costs.
Overall sales for the year grew
by 18% to £4.05m, split 48%
and 52% between capital and
recurring revenue respectively.
As a result of the issue of
shares during the year, the
Company’s cash balance at the
year-end was £2.2m.
More than half of LiDCO’s sales during the
year came from outside the UK. Of note was
the strong growth in sales in continental
Europe, assisted by the redeployment of
some of our UK sales resources. UK sensor
sales showed good growth, as did sensor
sales in Europe.
Turning to product development, the
Company’s main focus last year was the
development of the new LiDCOrapid monitor
and disposables. This is designed especially
to meet the needs of the substantial and
growing market in major surgery and other
hospital applications where quick and easy
set-up is required and continuous trend
information is important. This new monitor
uses the same algorithm as that used in the
existing LiDCOplus monitor, so data from
studies involving the LiDCOplus also
validates the LiDCOrapid monitor, thus
helping with market acceptance. The
LiDCOrapid was launched in April 2008.
In addition, we were pleased to see the
publication during the year of a number of
independent outcome studies by leading
centres, such as the University of Iowa,
further endorsing the use of our LiDCOplus
technology. Such outcome studies are
important because they show the compelling
advantages of using our products, such as
shortened hospital stays, reduced mortality
and reduced infections. These not only
benefit the patient but also bring important
cost-savings for the hospital.
Our products continue to be developed and
assembled, with certain proprietary elements
manufactured, in our facility in East London,
under strict quality standards. The
Company’s critical care products are
registered in 14 markets in Europe, the USA,
Brazil, South Korea and Japan. Sales during
the year were made through our direct sales
forces in the UK and USA, and through our
international network of speciality critical care
and anesthesia distributors in 15 other
countries. In June the Company signed a
new marketing collaboration agreement with
Becton, Dickinson U.K. Limited. This type of
collaboration with a leading global medical
technology company is a tribute to our
technology and to our specialist sales force.
This type of collaborative agreement not only
broadens our offering among our target
customers but also potentially helps to
increase penetration of our markets.
In December 2007 the Company raised
£2m through the issue of new shares, to be
used for completing the development and
market introduction of the LiDCOrapid
monitor, supporting continued sales growth
of the Company’s existing products in the
critical care market and continuing its active
research and development programme.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank
our shareholders for their continued support
of the Company.
We were delighted to welcome Paul Clifford
to the Board in April 2008 as Finance
Director. Paul has extensive experience
of technology and software companies,
both listed on the main market and venture
capital-backed. His past positions include
being finance director of Comino Group plc,
a company that was listed on the London
Stock Exchange’s main market, and
Civica UK Limited.
To date the market for our products has
been mainly the intensive care /critical care
units of hospitals. The launch of the
LiDCOrapid monitor, now available for sales
to customers in the EC and USA, will open
more fully the substantial market opportunity
in major surgery. LiDCOrapid’s ease of use is
a key feature that is expected to broaden the
range of distributors willing and able to work
with us in existing and new territories.
We therefore expect to increase further our
distributor network this year in the EC, the
USA and the Rest of the World, whilst
maintaining our direct sales forces in the UK
and USA. The Company’s product
development activities, conducted in close
consultation with leading clinicians, mean
that we now have a broader portfolio of
linked products to offer our customers
enabling the measurement, analysis, audit
and communication of real-time and historic
hemodynamic data in both critical care units
and the operating theatre. Meanwhile, there
is an expanding body of scientific data linking
the optimization of patients’ hemodynamic
status with better outcomes and reduced
hospital stays.
With strong growth in sales of
our existing products, reinforced
by the recent launch of the
LiDCOrapid monitor targeted
at the major surgery market,
the emergence of an additional
new market opportunity
for improving the viability of
transplant organs, together
with our growing network
of distributors, the Company
is well positioned for further
growth in the coming year.
As we look with enthusiasm to the year
ahead, I would like to thank all the Group’s
staff and directors for their dedication and
hard work over the past year and our Clinical
Advisory Board for their valuable contribution.
Theresa Wallis
Chairman
LiDCO Group Plc
LiDCO_FRONT_0708_aw:LiDCO REP_FRONT_0708_aw  21/5/08  15:53  Page 5
