 LiDCO Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007/8
6
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
Our objectives for the year were
fourfold: achieve revenue growth of our
core intensive care product, expand the
product range, increase our sales
distribution network and contain costs.
I am pleased to say that all four of these
objectives were achieved.
LiDCO_FRONT_0708_aw:LiDCO REP_FRONT_0708_aw  21/5/08  15:53  Page 6 LiDCO Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007/8
7
Overview
The worldwide market for hemodynamic
monitoring products continues to evolve,
mainly driven by the move away from the
use of the older invasive catheter products
towards the newer less invasive devices.
The potential market for these minimally
invasive devices, which include LiDCO’s
product range, is estimated at US$800
million per annum (surgery patient market
segment). We estimate that sales revenues
for minimally invasive hemodynamic
monitoring products grew in value last year
by 33%. Our objectives for the year were
fourfold: achieve revenue growth of our core
intensive care product, expand the product
range, increase our sales distribution
network and contain costs.
I am pleased to say that all four of these
objectives were achieved. Sales were up
18% on the prior year while we managed to
reduce normal operating overheads by 6%.
The favourable combination of increased
sales and reduced costs means that
significant progress towards profitability was
made. Following the expansion of the
distributor network and the recent
introduction of the LiDCOrapid product, our
business has both a wider product and
geographic base and is now capable of
significantly increasing its share of the global
hemodynamic monitoring market.
In summary, I feel that this has
been one of our most productive
periods and the Company is in a
strong position to continue to
move forward in 2008.
Sales and trading
Our strategy has been to supply the fast
growing hemodynamic monitoring market
with our proprietary products. I am pleased to
report that there is an increasing momentum
for the market’s transition to our minimally
invasive products and simultaneously in our
ability to access this market.
Since last year’s preliminary
results we have significantly
expanded our distribution
network with new distributors
added in a number of territories,
including Canada, the USA,
Israel, Turkey, and the Middle
East. Negotiations are ongoing
with specialty distributors in
additional regions of the USA
where we do not have direct
representation to further improve
our sales reach. We expect to be
able announce the conclusion of
these arrangements during the
next few months.
Revenues outside of the UK were up by a
very encouraging 63%. The performance of
established European distributors in the
period was particularly encouraging with
revenue increasing by no less than 71%.
The resurgence of sales growth in the USA,
while anticipated, was also good to see.
Overall sales growth at 18% was therefore
limited by lower demand for monitors in the
UK although disposable sales remained
buoyant. In a year where all capital
purchases by NHS hospitals in the UK were
at a low level for most of the period we
decided to redeploy existing sales resources
to the export market, which contributed to
our 63% increase in export sales. Exports
now represent the majority of our sales.
This has the positive effect of reducing our
reliance on an often ‘stop/start’ UK market.
We are expecting trading in the UK to
improve moderately this year with NHS
capital purchase budgets likely to be a little
more freely available. Furthermore our new
LiDCOrapid surgery product is targeted at a
more accessible revenue budget.
Accordingly we have now brought our UK
sales force up to strength with a number
of new appointments.
Despite an increasing proportion of lower-
margin distributor sales, product gross
margins were maintained at 78% on
monitors, and modestly improved to 87% on
disposables. In addition to maintaining
product margin the increased sales were
achieved without an increase in costs. I am
very pleased to be able to report that over
the last four years our sales have increased
by 79% while we have simultaneously
reduced our costs by 16%. Over the last few
years we have made strategic investments in
our patents, our products and their
automated manufacture, coupled with
development of clinical/business cases. We
are now starting to see clear evidence that
these investments have been justified and
can now be leveraged to support a
significantly larger turnover from both our
direct and distributor sales teams.
Looking forward, our new surgery product,
the LiDCOrapid monitor, launched in April,
should have a dual advantage for us.
Not only does it address the needs of a
US$800million per annum surgery market,
but also makes our product range more
attractive to sell by both the existing and new
distribution partners. The attractive features
of this new product – proprietary technology
and design, high margin, ease of set-up and
use – have already helped propel the recent
expansion of our distribution network.
While this expansion of the sales distribution
channel occurred too late to contribute
materially to the 2007/08 results, these
additions are expected to provide a
significant new source of revenue in the
second half of the current year.
In addition to signing up more distributors, in
June 2007 LiDCO announced the signing of
an exclusive UK marketing collaboration with
Becton, Dickinson U.K. Limited (‘BD’). BD is
a leading global medical technology
company and this collaboration involves the
joint promotion, in selected UK hospitals
where LiDCO already has existing sales and
customer relationships, of a number of
critical care products currently being sold by
the BD Medical Surgical Systems business
unit. LiDCO’s strong customer relationship
with critical care departments in UK hospitals
was a key factor in BD’s decision to form this
exclusive collaboration. This marketing
partnership will result in enhanced sales
coverage for BD’s critical care product lines
in the UK and LiDCO will receive a share of
any profits made.
LiDCO_FRONT_0708_aw:LiDCO REP_FRONT_0708_aw  21/5/08  15:53  Page 7 Market trends –
LiDCO’s sales and marketing strategy
Intensive care market
In a 2007 article in the Journal of the
American Medical Association doctors from
Harborview Hospital in Seattle noted that
their use of the invasive pulmonary artery
catheter (PAC) for measuring cardiac output
had declined by 77% over the last four years.
The authors, whose hospital is now a LiDCO
product user, also commented that ‘Recently
nurses and residents gathered around the
bedside of the sole patient in the intensive
care unit (ICU) with a PAC so they could
actually observe one still in use’. The use of
the invasive PAC approach to monitor
hemodynamics continues to decline and this
is particularly so in the ICU. In contrast the
sales of the LiDCOplus monitor are
increasing in the ICU – clearly in these LiDCO
accounts we are replacing the PAC with our
technology, which has been convincingly
demonstrated to improve clinical outcome
and reduce costs in patients after surgery.
The transition to minimally
invasive monitoring in this
market is expected to continue.
We intend to further distinguish
ourselves from older
catheter-based technologies
by presenting to hospitals a
number of strong clinical and
business cases associated with
use of our products.
Accordingly we were pleased to announce
during the year the results of a study
conducted in 2006 at the University of Iowa,
showing that use of our products in severely
ill patients with shock and sepsis
substantially reduced mortality.
The University, which has been using our
technology since 2003, conducted a
retrospective analysis of outcomes in a group
of critically ill patients treated for septic shock
and systemic inflammatory response
syndrome (SIRS). This epidemiological study
was undertaken to evaluate the various
hemodynamic monitoring technologies used
in the ICU and their effect on outcomes in
this gravely ill patient population.
Patients treated with the LiDCOplus monitor
had a substantially lower mortality rate than
those treated clinically with the PAC: ICU
mortality in the LiDCO treated group of
patients was only 12% compared with 32%
in the PAC treated group or 31% in those
patients managed without any hemodynamic
monitoring. The compelling data from this
study supports the case that using the
LiDCOplus monitor decreases death rates in
patients with septic shock or SIRS. This is
very exciting news for us and our hospital
customers and for patients, as these
conditions have historically been very difficult
to treat successfully. Similar trials are in
progress in other countries to repeat and
confirm this observation. If successful the
data should have meaningful effects on the
uptake of our LiDCOplus monitor product
within our existing ICU customer base.
Major surgery market – a new opportunity
Now that we have established our
technology’s credentials and the LiDCO
brand name within the technically demanding
intensive care market, we have used our
expertise to produce a product for sale into
the emerging high-risk surgery market.
This project resulted in the recent launch of
the LiDCOrapid monitor. Our goal was to
introduce a simple and easy-to-use product
that would be used to optimize a patient’s
hemodynamic profile during surgery.
Individualized fluid administration to maintain
and optimize hemodynamics and tissue
oxygenation plays a major role in the
management of the moderate to high-risk
surgical patient. This cannot be achieved
reliably through the use of conventionally
measured parameters such as arterial
pressure, heart rate, urine output and central
venous pressure but requires use of a
specially designed monitor that provides a
continuous measure of cardiac output.
The LiDCOrapid is the first
monitor specifically designed to
help surgical teams maintain a
patient’s optimal hemodynamic
profile. It is easy to use and set
up and is designed with a user
interface that is both visually
intuitive and informative.
It provides early warning of hemodynamic
change, together with an indication of fluid
responsiveness and actual response to a
fluid or drug intervention. We are confident
that widespread adoption of the LiDCOrapid
will have a major impact on improving
outcomes after major surgery by reducing
complications and shortening hospital stays:
this will not only benefit patients but also cut
treatment costs. The initial response to this
new product has been excellent and we are
very excited about the potential of this
product to take a significant share of this
US$800 million surgery market.
Organ transplantation –
a developing market opportunity
There has been a large amount of publicity in
the press about the growing shortage of
transplantable organs. This is in part related
to declining numbers of patients suitable to
act as organ donors. However the situation
is compounded by an assumption that post-
collection loss of transplantable organs is
inevitable if an initial assessment of the donor
suggests that the patients’ hemodynamics,
and hence organs, have deteriorated
irreversibly. Brain death is known to induce
dramatic changes in hemodynamics but
donors are often not adequately
hemodynamically monitored. This results in
inadequate resuscitation, thereby reducing
organ yield due to oxygen debt. In an effort
to improve donor outcomes, LiDCO is
working with an Organ Procurement
Organisation (OPO) in the USA which is using
our minimally invasive continuous
hemodynamic monitoring to guide donor
management decisions in hemodynamically
unstable donors. The OPO believes that the
ability to monitor and assess continuously
fluid parameters, pressure and blood flow
would enable the OPO coordinator to
recognize and apply situation-specific
interventions that target improving
hemodynamics and hence improve end-
organ perfusion. LiDCOplus monitoring is
minimally invasive and brings the advantage
that such care could be initiated immediately
by the OPO coordinator (frequently a nurse)
without the need for inserting specialized
catheters (eg. the invasive pulmonary artery
catheter) or requiring specialist physician
support. I am delighted to report that
LiDCO Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007/8
8
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
Continued
LiDCO_FRONT_0708_aw:LiDCO REP_FRONT_0708_aw  21/5/08  15:53  Page 8 LiDCO Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007/8
9
minimally invasive hemodynamic monitoring
has indeed helped to improve donor
outcomes in these cases, with a significant
increase in the number of organs available
for transplantation.
This issue has been further
studied by the University of
Pittsburgh in a recently
published prospective study.
This confirmed our expectation
that donors who were
adequately resuscitated with
the LiDCOplus monitor provided
a significantly higher number
(3.7 compared with 2) of organs
per donor that were suitable for
transplant, whereas donors
who had inadequate volume
resuscitation were associated
with a higher inflammatory
response. These results have
generated considerable interest
within the transplantation
community, which is beginning
to translate into sales of
our technology into this
developing market.
Product development
The last year has been a very active one for
product development. Our development
strategy is to respond quickly to market
opportunities by providing proprietary
hemodynamic monitoring products. The
LiDCOrapid development follows on from the
launch of the LiDCOplus version 4.1 software,
the new LiDCO PC products LiDCOview
SE
and LiDCOview
PRO
(launched) and LiDCOlive
(in development and discussed below).
LiDCOrapid was launched on target in April of
this year with the first shipments of product to
our distributor customers. Customer
response to this exciting product has been
exceptional and we are expecting this
product to represent a new standard of care
for major surgery patients.
We believe that the combination of the
LiDCOplus and LiDCOrapid monitors and our
data analysis PC software products
collectively represent the most evolved
platforms available today for the care and
hemodynamic optimization of both intensive
care and surgery patients.
LiDCOlive –
data display independent of location
The LiDCOlive development is aimed at the
creation of a virtual intensive care unit, taking
real-time hemodynamic patient data and
easy-to-interpret screens to the clinician –
irrespective of their physical location.
Location-independent monitoring is required
to offset the growing shortage of the highly
skilled staff needed to care for these patients.
LiDCO is therefore developing a PC-based
software product called LiDCOlive that can
display the LiDCOplus monitor trend screen
and real-time patient data on any PC or
laptop regardless of location. The clinician,
together with the nurse at the patient’s bed-
side, can then discuss potential treatment
approaches and immediately see the effects
of their agreed change in fluid or drug
therapy. This ‘virtual ICU’ approach using
LiDCO’s technology has the potential to make
a considerable improvement in the care of
high-risk patients and to make best use of
the skills of the hospital clinical staff. The
prototype LiDCOlive product has been
successfully demonstrated in Japan, the
Czech Republic and the USA at various
international meetings this year. One of the
trialists of LiDCOlive, Dr. Loua Shaikh
(Department of Critical Care Medicine, Frimley
Park Hospital, UK), said: ‘In terms of patient
care, the impact of time and distance on the
delivery of experience and expert knowledge
to the bedside are considerably diminished.’
The LiDCOlive software is still a
product in development but we
expect the first generation of
this product to be available
during the second half of 2008.
Regulatory affairs and product quality
During the period both our EC notified
body and the US FDA conducted
surveillance visits. LiDCO is pleased to report
that no non-conformity issues were raised
by either group of inspectors. Our product
quality and customer satisfaction record
continues to be excellent.
Dr Terry O’Brien
Chief Executive Officer
23 April 2008
LiDCO_FRONT_0708_aw:LiDCO REP_FRONT_0708_aw  21/5/08  15:53  Page 9
