 4 ANGLE plc Annual report and accounts 2005
......................................................................................................................
Chief Executive’s review
Introduction
Founded in 1994, ANGLE’s integrated business
model combines its revenue-earning Consulting
and Management businesses with its capital-
growth Ventures business:
• Consulting: consulting on the
commercialisation of technology, including
consulting for major corporations, SMEs,
regional and national economic development
agencies and governments.
• Management: taking direct management
responsibility for activities such as the
operation of research parks and technology
incubators and the management of innovation
and product development programmes.
• Ventures: establishment and ownership of
significant equity stakes in a portfolio of
technology companies (Progeny
®
Companies),
primarily in the biotechnology, electronics and
IT sectors, with a view to realising value in the
medium to long term.
Consulting and Management
ANGLE has built profitable Consulting and
Management businesses in the UK, US and
Middle East, generating revenue and providing
expert in-house staff capability as well as the
opportunity to build important relationships 
with corporates, government research
establishments and universities. The
relationships with owners of intellectual 
property are a key channel for the Group 
to identify and exploit opportunities to
commercialise intellectual property using 
its proprietary Progeny
®
process.
The Consulting and Management businesses
have performed strongly during the year . Fees
increased 47% to £3.90 million (2004: £2.66
million) resulting in a profit up 22% at £0.52
million (2004: £0.43 million). A number of major
contracts were secured during the year and 
the order book is strong at £8.98 million (2004: 
£3.23 million). 
Ventures
The Ventures business made good progress
during the year . The management teams in 
the UK and US were both strengthened with 
new recruits and, in accordance with our plans
set out at the time of flotation, investment 
to establish and develop new Ventures was
increased 251% to £3.02 million (2004: £0.86
million). This comprised Ventures operating
costs expensed in the profit and loss account 
of £1.78 million (2004: £0.67 million) and an
increase in fixed asset investments on 
the balance sheet of £1.24 million (2004: 
£0.19 million).
The pipeline of new opportunities available to
ANGLE has been significantly developed. An
example of this was the agreement with Ben
Franklin Technology Partners of Southeastern
Pennsylvania (BFTP), an internationally
recognised economic development organisation,
to advance the growth of technology-based
companies in the Greater Philadelphia region. 
It is contemplated that ANGLE will commit 
$5 million over five years for funding new
technology spin-outs that meet its Progeny
®
requirements. This funding will be matched 
by BFTP on a non-dilutive basis, thus doubling
the leverage on ANGLE funds for creating
Progeny
®
Companies. 
The Greater Philadelphia region is home to 
many of the world’s most renowned academic
institutions including the University of
Pennsylvania – one of the leading research
universities in the United States. Collectively, 
the region’s academic institutions attract more
than $1 billion of research funding per annum,
generating more than 200 patent applications
per year . The region is well recognised as a
global leader in the bio-pharma and medical
research arena. ANGLE will serve as BFTP’s
preferred commercialisation partner for
technologies from universities, colleges and
related institutions in the region.
This agreement demonstrates the benefit
ANGLE obtains from the combination of its
Consulting and Management businesses with 
its Ventures business. ANGLE’s relationship 
with BFTP has developed from successful
consulting work in Pennsylvania, including the
development of the strategy for nanotechnology
in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. 
During the year, work was undertaken on
establishing four new Progeny
®
Companies: 
• ContraSoft: a software testing product
company commercialising technology
developed by a corporate VP of R&D and
University of Texas academic to improve
productivity, reduce costs and improve quality
in the software testing process.
OUR STRATEGY
>
Continue growth of Consulting
and Management
>
Build larger portfolio of
Progeny
®
Companies
>
Drive Progeny
®
Companies
through to successful exit
>
Leverage client relationships
with organisations developing
proprietary technology
>
Achieve sustainable long
term growth
>
Reduce risk and
maximise returns
ANGLE’s business is scaleable, well diversified 
into international markets and benefits from a 
portfolio of companies. ANGLE plc Annual report and accounts 2005 5
• Customiser: an internet personalisation
company founded to commercialise
intellectual property generated by a Cambridge
team of psychologists and university pattern
recognition experts to improve on-line
advertising and sales. 
• Geomerics: a computational graphics
company founded just after the year end 
to commercialise intellectual property
developed by a team of leading academics
from the University of Cambridge, Colorado
School of Mines and Arizona State University
for application in high speed computer 
games graphics. 
• Novocellus: an IVF diagnostic company
founded to commercialise revolutionary
technology from University of York for non-
invasive testing of the viability of IVF embryos.
Each of these new Progeny
®
Companies offer 
the potential to address major worldwide
markets with differentiated products protected
by intellectual property. The development of
these companies is carefully controlled using
ANGLE’s Progeny
®
process to minimise the
development risk and enhance the return to all
the shareholders. Substantial capital returns 
are expected to accrue to ANGLE shareholders
from these new Progeny
®
Companies within
three to five years.
Good progress was made with ANGLE’s 
existing Progeny
®
Companies. Most notably,
work during the year resulted in the flotation 
on AIM of Provexis via a reverse acquisition of
Nutrinnovator Holdings plc raising £5.9 million
through a placing and the conversion of loans.
Since the flotation was completed in June 2005,
the financial impact of the transaction is not
shown in ANGLE’s accounts to 30 April 2005.
Provexis was founded by ANGLE in 2000, using
the Progeny
®
process, as a joint venture with 
the Rowett Institute (a leading human nutrition
research centre). ANGLE’s cost of investment on
the balance sheet to develop Provexis using the
Progeny
®
process is £0.46 million. At the placing
price, this original investment is valued at £2.13
million representing a multiple on investment 
of 4.6 times, an increase of £1.67 million over
cost. In addition, ANGLE provided Provexis with
convertible loan funding of £0.50 million in
February 2005. This loan has been converted 
into new shares in Provexis plc valued at £0.83
million at the placing price, representing a
multiple on investment of 1.7 times and an
increase of £0.33 million over cost. The overall
gain in valuation to ANGLE from the transaction
is £2.00 million at the placing price. 
ANGLE believes that the value of Provexis may
increase substantially if Provexis is successful in
its launch of Sirco
™
and has therefore invested
£0.50 million in the placing. Following the
placing and completion of the reverse takeover,
ANGLE holds 24.8% of Provexis plc’s issued
share capital.
ANGLE currently holds investments in eight
companies, which it has developed using its
established Progeny
®
process. Provexis is the
second successful transaction for ANGLE’s
venture companies since ANGLE’s flotation in
March 2004 and further demonstrates the value
of ANGLE’s Progeny
®
process. 
In addition to work on Provexis’ flotation,
progress has also been made during the year
with the Progeny
®
Companies established before
ANGLE’s flotation, notably:
• Acolyte Biomedica has completed the
development of its MRSA testing product
and made its first sales of this product 
in May 2005. Independent hospital
analysis of the product has been highly
favourable and market demand 
looks promising. 
• NeuroTargets has progressed its nerve
injury and pain treatments and secured 
an alliance with BioFocus plc aimed 
at discovering treatments for nerve
injury and pain.
• Provexis has progressed
product development and
clinical trials of Sirco
™
, its
cardiovascular health drink
containing active ingredient
FruitFlow
™
(formerly known
as CardioFlow
®
) and has
announced plans for 
the launch of the drink
in the final quarter
of 2005.
........................................................... 6 ANGLE plc Annual report and accounts 2005
.............................................................................
Chief Executive’s review continued
During the year, a detailed evaluation was
undertaken of the market prospects for
Progeny
®
Company, IDR Therapeutics. It was
concluded that the market dynamic for IDR’s
product offering had changed with the likely
impact that the company would require a
significantly increased level of investment over a
longer timescale before a return would be
achieved. Under these new circumstances, the
development of IDR Therapeutics no longer met
our requirements for investment under the
Progeny
®
process. Accordingly the programme
was terminated. The cost of investment was
£0.14 million, all of which had previously been
expensed through the profit and loss account. 
Whilst it was disappointing to terminate the IDR
programme, the strength of the Progeny
®
process was demonstrated through
identification of a potential problem in advance of
a major financial investment. Where problems
are identified in the future with other Progeny
®
Companies, these will be similarly terminated
with the minimum investment from ANGLE
having been committed.
The share price of Corpora plc, the AIM listed
company in which ANGLE holds shares following
the sale of its Progeny
®
Company Exago to
Corpora, has regrettably fallen significantly
during the year resulting in the need for an
increase in the provision for the diminution in
value of investments to £1.57 million. Even after
this write down, ANGLE’s original investment is
still valued at £0.85 million at the year end which
is 4.0 times cost. On a more positive note,
Corpora has recently completed a £3 million
placing to fund expansion and announced
software product sales to Microsoft and EDS.
The Company’s ongoing strategy is to create
more Progeny
®
Companies in the biosciences,
electronics, optronics, IT, materials,
nanotechnology and software sectors. At the
year end, the pipeline for further Venture
opportunities was strong. ANGLE’s business
model, high calibre management and its
Progeny
®
process have been recognised by many
potential technology partners as bridging a
critical gap in exploiting their intellectual
property. As a result ANGLE is evaluating new
Venture opportunities with several of the UK’s
and US’s top technology universities, key
research organisations and FTSE 100/Fortune
500 businesses. 
ANGLE’s business is scaleable, well diversified
into international markets and benefits from a
portfolio of companies specialising in a number
of different sectors. This diversity and flexibility is
key to ANGLE’s ongoing strength and stability.
With a solid performance underpinning its
activities, a strong sold order book going forward
and many exciting and profitable venture
opportunities on the horizon, ANGLE is facing
the future with confidence and optimism.
Andrew Newland
Chief Executive
5 July 2005 
