 2 ANGLE plc Annual report and accounts 2005
Chairman’s statement
ANGLE has made good progress in delivering 
both revenue returns and capital growth.
In 2004 the profit before tax was £2.33 million,
which included profit of £2.31 million on disposal
of Exago to Corpora plc. The basic loss per share
was 13.87p (2004: profit 20.43p). 
Finance
At the year end, ANGLE had cash at bank of
£5.55 million (2004: £8.25 million). The reduction
was principally planned investment to establish
and develop new Ventures, which increased by
251% to £3.02 million (2004: £0.86 million)
comprising Ventures operating costs expensed
in the profit and loss account of £1.78 million
(2004: £0.67 million) and increase in fixed asset
investments on the balance sheet of £1.24
million (2004: £0.19 million). 
In addition to cash balances, ANGLE held a
quoted investment valued at £0.88 million at the
year end relating to its holdings in Corpora plc.
Subsequent to the year end, completion of the
Provexis flotation led to ANGLE holding an
additional quoted investment in Provexis plc
valued at £3.47 million at the placing price,
which included a gain in valuation of £2.00
million. 
Progeny
®
Companies
Significant progress has been made in
expanding our Ventures capabilities and
activities. Senior staff have been appointed to
lead and develop new Ventures in both the UK
and US markets, bringing experience from
major corporate, management consulting 
and venture capital roles.
During the year, we completed work on
establishing four new Progeny
®
Companies,
three of which were founded in the year and the
fourth immediately thereafter . These companies
address large markets in software testing,
internet personalisation, computer graphics 
and IVF embryo viability. 
We are in negotiation with several major
corporates and universities in the UK and US 
to agree the basis for commercialisation of 
their intellectual property.
Introduction
During the year ended 30 April 2005, ANGLE has
made good progress in developing its business 
in accordance with plans set out at flotation in
March 2004.
Strong growth of the Consulting and
Management businesses was achieved and 
the Ventures business was scaled up using 
the monies raised at the flotation. Investments
were made to establish three new Progeny
®
Companies in the year with a fourth announced
immediately after the year end. 
Strong progress was made by Acolyte
Biomedica, NeuroTargets and Provexis against
their milestones during the year, with a notable
success being Provexis’ flotation completed in
June 2005.
Results 
In the year ended 30 April 2005, ANGLE
increased turnover by 44% to £4.13 million 
(2004: £2.87 million). The loss before tax was
£2.35 million, which was principally made up 
of the following elements:
• Increased profit before tax on the Consulting
and Management businesses to £0.52 million
(2004: £0.43 million), up by 22%.
• Increased investment to establish and develop  
new Ventures expensed in the profit and loss
account of £1.78 million (2004: £0.67
million) up 164%.
•A provision for diminution in the value    
of investments of £1.57 million resulting
from our holding in Corpora plc.
• Interest of £0.24 million (2004: 
£0.05 million).
........................................................................ ANGLE plc Annual report and accounts 2005 3
............................................................................................
Of our four Progeny
®
Companies existing at the
start of the financial year, three developed well
during the year according to their agreed
milestones. Of particular note, was the work
undertaken during the year towards the flotation
of Provexis, which completed in June 2005.
Development of the fourth company, IDR
Therapeutics, was terminated when market
evaluation indicated that there were better
alternative opportunities available to us. 
Strategy and outlook
ANGLE’s objective is to achieve profitable long
term capital growth for its shareholders through
the successful combination of its Consulting and
Management businesses with the establishment
and development of a portfolio of Progeny
®
Companies in a range of technology sectors. The
Group’s access to intellectual property combined
with its highly experienced management team
puts it in a strong position to fulfil this objective
over the next few years.
The Consulting and Management order book
remains strong at £8.98 million at 30 April 2005
(2004: £3.23 million), with particularly strong
growth forecast in the Middle East as a result 
of a major new contract in Qatar . 
The outlook for the current financial year is
encouraging since the start of the financial year
we have already made a number of important
announcements including the:
• flotation of Provexis through a reverse
acquisition of Nutrinnovator Holdings plc
raising new equity of £5.9 million from new
funding and the conversion of loans. Provexis’
leading product Sirco
™
, containing active
ingredient FruitFlow
™
(previously known as
CardioFlow
®
) for maintaining cardiovascular
health, is scheduled to be launched in UK
supermarkets in the final quarter of 2005. 
• launch of the BacLite
®
MRSA detection 
product by Acolyte Biomedica with sales to
Barts and the London NHS Trust and Salisbury
District Hospital. The product has been well
received and the Company expects strong
demand. Separately Acolyte signed a joint
venture agreement with Scottish National
Blood Transfusion Service to develop a test 
for bacterial contaminants in blood.
• formation of a new Progeny
®
Company,
Geomerics, to commercialise intellectual
property developed by academics from the
University of Cambridge for application in 
high speed computer games graphics. 
The pipeline of potential Progeny
®
Companies 
is strong and presents significant opportunities
for ANGLE to further expand its Venture
development activities. 
I would like to thank all members of the ANGLE
team for their efforts in delivering a strong
performance in our first year as a public
company. We have an exceptional team, and 
I am grateful for all their hard work, enthusiasm
and commitment to the business. I look forward
to working with them in the year ahead.
Hance Fullerton
Chairman
5 July 2005
