 Chief Executive’s Review 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 3
UBC is beneﬁting from the current rapid growth in digital radio 
and is positioned for further growth as the full effects of new 
digital radio business models take hold.
Revenues in 2006 for the Group were up by 21.8% on the 
previous year at £19.44 million (2005: £15.96 million), with 
particularly strong growth from our Network Programming 
business, with advertising revenues up 45.8% year-on-year at 
£11.01 million (2005: £7.55 million) as UBC continues to grow 
its market share.
Simon Cole 
Chief Executive
Our four divisions: Network Programming, Digital 
Stations, Digital Content and Digital Software are 
structured to meet the opportunities for revenue 
growth. The investments we have made to date, and 
continue to make, will ensure we build a market 
leading digital radio business.
UBC continues to grow its share of the radio 
advertising market
UBC’s Network Programming business continues 
to beneﬁt from the structural changes occurring in 
the radio industry as a result of the growth of digital 
listening and the fragmentation of audiences. The 
performance of advertising revenues in UBC’s network 
business stands out in sharp contrast to that of the 
commercial radio industry overall, which in the year  
to March 2006 experienced a 6.8% decline in 
advertising revenues.
As we predicted would be the case, networked 
programmes are proving to be a solution to one of the 
main challenges resulting from the growth in digital 
radio. In particular, networked programmes enable 
advertisers to continue to reach signiﬁcant national 
audiences, whilst at the same time providing radio 
stations with a cost effective means of delivering 
expensive ‘must have’ programming. 
During the year, our Network Programming business 
beneﬁted from both strong advertiser demand and an 
increase in the network of stations taking our services. 
UBC continues to invest in building its advertising 
business. During the year, we launched a Network 
News advertising package based on the Sky Radio 
News Service, which we believe is capable of delivering 
strong growth. We continue to actively explore other 
ways of extending our radio advertising business.
UBC’s Digital Stations beneﬁt from the growth 
in digital radio
The future is one where the winning national media 
brands will be genuinely multi-platform, allowing 
audiences to be built by cross promotion. Our 
partnership with Channel 4 Television in Oneword  “ During the year, our 
Network Programming 
business beneﬁ ted 
from both strong 
advertiser demand 
and an increase in the 
network of stations 
taking our services.”
NETWORK PROGRAMMING 
UBC is one of the fastest growing 
advertising sales businesses in the UK. 
Advertising revenues were up 45.8% at 
£11.01 million (2005: £7.55 million) 
as UBC continues to grow market share.
UBC provides three network 
programmes to commercial radio: 
Network Drive, Entertainment News 
and Network News. UBC supplies this 
high quality network programming 
free of charge to commercial radio 
stations across the UK, taking in 
exchange advertising inventory and 
thereby creating strong radio advertising 
opportunities that cut through a 
fragmenting market. UBC continues 
to explore ways to build its radio 
advertising business in the future.
£11.01m
+
45.8%
TURNOVER
NETWORK
PROGRAMMING
UBC MEDIA GROUP PLC 4
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Radio is one of the most signiﬁ cant milestones in 
the development of digital radio to date. Channel 4’s 
investment in Oneword Radio represents the ﬁ rst major 
involvement by a commercial television broadcaster 
in the commercial radio sector and Oneword has 
recently begun to introduce cross-promoted Channel 4 
programming into its schedule.
Sales of DAB digital radios are growing rapidly and 
are forecast* to reach 5 million by the end of the year. 
With 6.4 million people (13% of the population) now 
living in a DAB household and 36% of the population 
reporting they listen to digital services every week, 
digital radio is on the point of becoming a mass-market 
product. In partnership with Channel 4, we believe we 
can build Oneword Radio into one of the prime assets 
in digital radio.
Classic Gold Digital continues to grow its digital 
audience, which now stands at 34% of all listeners to 
the network. The increase in Classic Gold Digital’s 
digital audiences during the year reinforces our long-
standing belief that a national, branded classic hits 
format stands to beneﬁ t disproportionately from the 
growth in digital radio. As part of our overall strategy to 
manage the decline in analogue audiences while we 
grow the number of digital listeners, we continue to 
invest in marketing and quality programming. 
Investing for the future remains our primary objective, 
as the long-term growth of Classic Gold Digital 
depends upon building its digital audiences. In the 
short term we will continue to face the challenges 
of a declining AM audience. During the year Classic 
Gold Digital was also held back by a depressed local 
sponsorship and promotions market. However, the 
ﬁ rst quarter of the new ﬁ nancial year has seen some 
recovery in this area and we are hopeful this trend 
will build as the current year progresses. Classic Gold 
Digital’s revenues in the year to 31 March 2006 were 
down 6.4% at £4.12 million (2005: £4.4 million), 
which was in line with our expectations.
* source: Digital Radio Development Bureau DIGITAL
STATIONS
DIGITAL STATIONS
 “ Our leadership in 
software development 
and our ownership 
of a large part of 
the available digital 
radio data spectrum 
has enabled us to 
develop an exciting 
new service that will 
allow consumers 
to download and 
purchase music on 
mobile devices as
they hear it on
the radio.”
UBC’s Radio Stations – Oneword Radio 
and Classic Gold Digital – are major assets 
in the future digital radio marketplace.
UBC’s national digital station, Oneword 
Radio, is the only commercial station in 
the UK to be linked with a national TV 
broadcaster. Oneword Radio’s link with 
Channel 4 provides high-quality speech 
programming and the cross promotion 
necessary to create a strong new brand.
Classic Gold Digital is one of the UK’s 
leading ‘Gold’ formats, comprising a 
network of 27 local stations, covering 
29 million people. Classic Gold Digital 
continues to grow its digital audience, 
which now stands at 34% of all listeners 
to the network. Revenues in the year, at 
£4.12 million (2005: £4.4 million), were 
in line with expectations.
new service that will new service that will 
to download and to download and 
purchase music on 
mobile devices as
they hear it on
the radio.” the radio.”
which now stands at 34% of all listeners 
£4.12m
-
6.4%
TURNOVER
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 5
UBC’s Digital Content Division moves into audio
on demand 
As has been the case in television, we believe that the 
digital radio market will see a shift from live delivery 
of content to one in which content is increasingly 
available ‘on demand’. In this environment, the values 
of content and brand become more important than the 
value of individual broadcast licences. We can expect 
to see content brand owners that have not previously 
been involved in radio – such as newspapers 
– entering the market. UBC’s programming business 
is very well positioned to take advantage of this market 
and in the last year UBC has won contracts to produce 
podcasts for The Times, The Sun, The Daily Telegraph 
and the News of The World.
Together with the Group’s existing business of 
production for BBC Radio, this has led to a 5.1% 
increase in revenues for the year to £3.08 million 
(2005: £2.93 million). This performance also reﬂ ects 
a particularly strong contribution from our regional 
and specialist music business, Smooth Operations, 
which continues to beneﬁ t from the BBC’s decision to 
increase the amount of programming it commissions 
from outside London. Overall, our production 
businesses remain well positioned to beneﬁ t from 
any future growth in the programming budgets of the 
BBC’s national digital radio stations. During the year, 
UBC was commissioned to produce the ﬁ rst new 
network chart programme launched by the commercial 
radio sector in 22 years.
Software sales growing strongly
UBC’s Digital Software division reported revenues up 
13.9% at £1.23 million (2005: £1.08 million). UBC 
is the market leader in the development of software 
solutions for digital radio. During the year our software 
development business established a growing presence 
in a number of key overseas markets. 
UBC has two main software products: ‘ManDLS’ 
software, which is used to manage the scrolling 
text (Dynamic Label Segment) element of a digital 
radio service; and a software programme used to  UBC MEDIA GROUP PLC 6
Chief Executive’s Review continued
DIGITAL
CONTENT
“ The perfomance of 
the past year shows 
that UBC is ideally 
positioned across all its 
businesses to beneﬁ t 
from the growth of 
digital radio.”
DIGITAL CONTENT 
UBC is one of the largest independent 
audio production companies in the UK. 
In addition to its core radio programming 
for the BBC, in the last year UBC has 
taken a lead in producing on-demand 
programming for new customers, such as 
News International.
In 2006, UBC’s multi-award winning 
production businesses produced over 640 
hours of programming for the BBC as well 
as new ‘podcast’ programming for The Sun, 
The Times, the News of The World and The 
Daily Telegraph. Together with the existing 
business of audio production for BBC 
Radio, revenues for the year were up 5.1% 
at £3.08 million (2005: £2.93 million).
£3.08m
+
5.1%
TURNOVER
operate electronic programme guide (EPG) services 
on EPG-enabled digital devices. Sales of both 
software products continue to beneﬁ t from growing 
levels of investment by radio broadcasters in digital 
services. During the year UBC announced two 
major developments that we believe have long-term 
beneﬁ ts for our software business. The ﬁ rst was an 
agreement with BT Movio (previously BT Livetime) 
to supply and implement an EPG for the new Movio 
entertainment service soon to be launched on the 
Virgin Mobile network; and, secondly, a tie-up with 
Harris Corporation, the US market leader in radio 
broadcasting equipment, to incorporate UBC’s 
ManDLS software into its HD™ radio product range. 
Music Downloading
Last year was one for delivering on our promises 
– in particular, the promise that the investment 
in our digital radio strategy would bring tangible 
beneﬁ ts to the Group. The performance of the past 
year demonstrates how UBC has built a robust and 
innovative mix of businesses that are capable of 
generating growth from digital radio.
The growth of digital radio in the UK continues to 
gather pace. We believe the key driver for the next 
phase of development and innovation will be the 
convergence of digital radio with other forms of mass 
communication. A milestone in this process was the 
launch by BT Movio and Virgin Mobile of the ﬁ rst DAB 
enabled mobile phones, broadcasting digital television 
and radio services over the commercial DAB network. 
This will be followed by the ﬁ rst DAB/MP3 products, 
which are due to be launched later this year. It is our 
belief that product innovation will drive the next phase 
in the growth of digital radio and these products will 
transform how consumers use their radios, and when 
and what consumers use their radios for.
Our leadership in software development and our 
ownership of a large part of the available digital 
radio data spectrum (which is a key component for 
delivering interactive and broadcasting services) has 
enabled us to develop an exciting new service that will 
allow consumers to download and purchase music on 
mobile devices as they hear it on the radio. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 7
DIGITAL 
SOFTWARE
DIGITAL SOFTWARE
UBC ranks as a market leader in the 
development of software for digital radio. 
Revenues for UBC’s digital software 
business were up 13.9% at £1.23 million 
(2005: £1.08 million).
UBC’s software products power some of 
the most innovative new services in digital 
radio. Building on our experiences in the 
UK digital radio market, UBC is beneﬁ ting 
from the worldwide growth in digital radio. 
In 2006, UBC announced the ﬁ rst sales of 
its software in the US – the world’s largest 
radio market.
£1.23m
+
13.9%
TURNOVER
During the year, we successfully completed the ﬁ rst 
stage in developing a music downloading service over 
DAB digital radio. We are currently undertaking ﬁ eld 
studies. Depending upon the successful completion 
of the next stages in the development programme, 
we plan to launch a full consumer service in the next 
12 months. We believe that music downloading over 
radio has the potential to be one of the most signiﬁ cant 
innovations undertaken by the industry in recent times. 
As a pioneer in developing digital radio in the UK, we 
believe this is an opportunity that UBC is ideally placed 
to exploit. Subsequent to the year-end the Board 
approved the raising of additional funds, via a share 
issue subject to EGM approval, for further investment 
in the Group’s music downloading service.
Prospects
As digital listening grows it is increasingly apparent 
that it is also changing the business model on which 
the radio industry in the UK has operated since the 
launch of commercial radio in 1973. The performance 
of the past year shows that UBC is ideally positioned 
across all its businesses to beneﬁ t from the growth of 
digital radio – whether satisfying demand for low-cost, 
high-quality networked programming; developing the 
software that operates new digital services; operating 
radio stations that beneﬁ t from the growth in digital 
audiences; or developing entirely new business areas 
(such as music downloading) that arise from the 
capabilities of digital radio.
The year ahead will be an exciting and challenging 
one for the Group. However, UBC has shown that for 
it, digital radio is an opportunity and one that we are 
ideally placed to exploit.
Simon Cole
Chief Executive
