 06 LiDCO Annual Report 2008/09
Chairman’s Statement
During the last twelve months we have continued
to pursue our strategy of growing our global
product sales whilst maintaining our high product
margins and careful control of costs.
Once again more than half of LiDCO’s sales during
the year came from outside the UK. For the second
year running, the Group’s sales continued to
increase in continental Europe.
I am delighted to report that this has been a very successful
and productive year for the Group. During the last twelve
months we have continued to pursue our strategy of
growing our global product sales whilst maintaining our
high product margins and careful control of costs. Overall
sales for the year increased by 12% to £4.53 million, split
between 43% capital and 57% recurring revenue.
Once again more than half of LiDCO’s sales during the year
came from outside the UK. For the second year running, the
Group’s sales continued to increase in continental Europe.
Disposables’ sales across all territories showed strong
growth, in particular in the UK, Europe and Rest of World.
An important milestone was the launch of the LiDCOrapid
monitor and disposables in April 2008. The LiDCOrapid is
designed specifically to meet the needs of the growing high-
risk surgery market and other hospital applications where
quick and easy set-up is required, and continuous trend
information is important. This new monitor uses the same
algorithm as that used in the existing LiDCOplus monitor,
so data from studies involving the LiDCOplus also validate
the LiDCOrapid monitor, aiding market acceptance.
Until recently, the market for our products was mainly the
intensive/critical care units of hospitals. The launch of the
LiDCOrapid monitor gave the Group access to the US$800
million potential high-risk surgery market. Furthermore,
the LiDCOrapid’s ease of use is a key feature that enables
us to attract a broader range of distributors in new and
existing territories. As a result we significantly increased
our distributor network this year in the EU, USA and the
Rest of the World, whilst maintaining our direct sales forces
in the UK and USA.
The market’s positive reception of the LiDCOrapid was the
key driver behind 2008/09 being a record year for the
Group in terms of the number of monitors sold or placed in
hospitals. The value of the total monitor sales was, however,
broadly the same as last year’s. This was due to the focus of
our sales resources on the launch and establishment of the
LiDCOrapid, which is priced at a lower level than the
LiDCOplus.
In April this year the Group announced the extension of its
existing exclusive collaboration with Becton, Dickinson and
Company (‘BD’) to include additional territories beyond the
UK. In addition we entered into an exclusive distribution and
sales relationship for the LiDCOrapid monitor with BD in
Japan. Collaborations such as these with a leading global
medical technology company are a tribute to our
technology and potentially help to increase penetration
of our markets.
Our products continue to be developed and assembled,
with certain proprietary elements manufactured, in our
facility in East London, under strict quality standards.
The Group’s product development activities are conducted
in close consultation with leading clinicians. This means that
we now have a portfolio of linked products to offer our
customers, enabling not only the measurement but also the
analysis, audit, training and sharing of real-time and historic
hemodynamic data in both critical care units and the
operating theatre. Meanwhile, there is an expanding
amount of scientific data linking the optimisation of
patients’ hemodynamic status with better outcomes and
reduced hospital stays.
The Group’s cash balance at the year-end was £0.49 million.
In August 2008, the Group’s US$2m convertible loan facility
reached maturity and was replaced by a combined overdraft
and invoice financing facility with Royal Bank of Scotland,
the maximum amount available under these being £1.25
million. At 31 January 2009, the borrowings under these
facilities were £608,000.
We were pleased to announce in April 2009 the
appointment of FinnCap as the Group’s Nominated Adviser
and Broker. FinnCap are based in London and have a strong
track record in advising, raising capital, providing research
and after market care for both growing and established
smaller companies. 07 LiDCO Annual Report 2008/09
Whilst we are mindful that the current economic conditions
could potentially lead to a tightening in public and private
expenditure on healthcare, in particular capital budgets, we
believe that our products are well positioned in the current
environment for the following reasons:
• they have been shown to save costs by significantly
reducing infections and length of hospital stays among
patients who have undergone high risk surgery;
• Medicare’s decision not to reimburse US healthcare
providers for treatment of hospital-acquired infections will
we believe further encourage use of our products to
implement fluid optimisation strategies in high risk patients;
• the demand for the older invasive catheter-based
hemodynamic monitoring products is declining due to
concerns over the risks associated with these.
The addition of the LiDCOrapid and the expansion of our
distributor network have given us a solid platform for
growth. The substantial increase in the number of monitors
sold or placed during 2008/09 means we are well placed to
benefit from significant and consistent revenue streams from
the sale of the disposables on both the LiDCOplus and the
LiDCOrapid.
As we look with enthusiasm to the year ahead, I would like
to thank our shareholders for their continued support, the
Group’s staff and Directors for their dedication and hard
work over the past year and our Clinical Advisory Board for
their valuable contribution.
Theresa Wallis
Chairman
20 April 2009
£
4.53
M
Overall sales for the year increased
by 12% to £4.53m, split between 43%
capital and 57% recurring revenue.
