 Chairman’s Statement
Healthcare is expected to remain one the most
defended expenditures in developed countries.
As hospitals seek to improve efficiency by
reducing costly surgical complications, demand
for minimally invasive hemodynamic monitoring
products is likely to grow.
04 LiDCO Annual Report 2009/10
I am pleased to report another very
good year for LiDCO and we have made
excellent progress on our strategy for
growth. Revenues grew by 18%, our
installed base of monitors increased by
a record 37% and disposables unit sales
rose 26%. We ended the year with
important new distribution partnerships
in place, a strengthened cash position
and no borrowings. Against a background
of the banking crisis, currency
fluctuations, and subsequent recession,
we believe that this is a considerable
achievement.
Our strategy for growth remains clearly
focused on three key areas: products,
market access and evidence and
awareness.
Market access
LiDCO’s sales and distribution operations
focus on specific types of patient within
target clinical settings.
Until 2008, our market was mainly
intensive and critical care units, but the
launch of the LiDCOrapid gave us access
to the high-risk surgery market potentially
worth US$800m. Furthermore, the
product’s ease of use has attracted a wide
range of distributors in both new and
existing territories. In 2009/10, two thirds
of our sales were exports. We significantly
improved the Group’s access to two of
the world’s biggest markets, the USA and
Japan through distribution partnerships
with Aspect Medical Systems, Inc (now
part of Covidien) and Becton, Dickinson
and Company (BD).
Products
We create high value, high margin
products that are innovative and have
strong intellectual property protection.
Our products are developed in close
consultation with leading clinicians and
assembled at our London facility, under
strict quality standards. Our portfolio
of integrated products enables
measurement, analysis, audit, training
and sharing of real-time and historic
hemodynamic data, in both critical care
units and the operating theatre. Demand
for other older, invasive catheter-based
hemodynamic monitoring is declining due
to concerns over associated risks. LiDCO’s
products not only help improve patient
outcomes by significantly reducing
infections and length of hospital stays,
they also save money as a result.
Launched in 2008, the LiDCOrapid
monitor and disposables meet the needs
of the growing high-risk surgery market
and other applications where quick and
easy set-up is required and continuous
trend information is important. During
the year we continued to focus our sales
resources on establishing the LiDCOrapid
in the market. 05 LiDCO Annual Report 2009/10
Evidence and awareness
We recognise that continued sales growth
depends on a growing appreciation in the
acute care community of the clinical and
economic benefits of making the use of
hemodynamic monitoring part of normal
protocol. We will increasingly promote
knowledge and understanding of our
products, highlighting their advantages to
clinicians, administrators and healthcare
policy makers.
Scientific evidence is increasingly linking
the optimisation of patients’
hemodynamic status with better
outcomes and reduced hospital stays.
LiDCO has been selected as the sole
technology for two multi-centre
government-funded studies in the UK
and US. OPTIMISE is sponsored by the UK
Government for optimising cardiovascular
management in high-risk abdominal
surgery patients and in the US, MOnIToR
is a transplantation donor organ
optimisation study.
Financial position
To strengthen the Group’s balance
sheet and reduce exposure to potentially
uncertain banking facilities, £3.02m (net)
was raised through the issue of
31,916,000 ordinary shares last summer
to existing investors, new institutional
funds and management. This, together
with the licence fees received, enabled
the Group to repay its borrowings.
The Group’s cash balance at the year end
was £1.8m. Our robust position, coupled
with our partners’ strong balance sheets,
means we have the capital structure to
address the growing market, if necessary,
through placing (rather than selling)
of monitors and deriving income from
recurring disposable sales.
Prospects
Healthcare is expected to remain one
of the most defended expenditures in
developed countries. As hospitals seek
to improve efficiency by reducing costly
surgical complications, demand for
minimally invasive hemodynamic
monitoring products is likely to grow.
The addition of the LiDCOrapid to our
portfolio and the expansion of our
distributor network will enable us to take
full advantage of future opportunities.
I would like to thank our shareholders
for their continued support over the past
year. I am also grateful to my fellow
directors for their wise counsel, our staff
for their dedication and hard work and
our Clinical Advisory Board for their
valuable contribution. We look forward
with confidence to delivering our first
profit this year.
Theresa Wallis
Chairman
23 April 2010
37
%
Our installed base of
monitors increased by a
record 37% and disposables
unit sales rose 26%.
$
800
M
Potential size per annum
of the high risk surgery
market addressed by
the LiDCOrapid.
