 6
LiDCO Annual Report
2010/11
2010/11 was another good year 
for LiDCO. Continuing with our
strategy for growth, we saw
revenues increase by 16% and the
number of disposables sold grow 
by 26%. Despite returning a profit 
in the second half of the year, 
the difficult economic climate
experienced in our target markets
impeded us from recording a profit
for the year as a whole, though 
we were able to record an EBITDA 
of £141,000. 
Chairman’s statement
We have ended the year with a robust cash
position and no debt. LiDCO’s strategy for
growth continues to be focused on the
three key areas of products, market access
and evidence and awareness. 
Products
Concern over associated risks means 
that demand for invasive catheter-based
hemodynamic monitoring products
continues to decline. LiDCO’s minimally
invasive technology enables measurement,
analysis, audit and sharing of real-time and
historic hemodynamic data, both in critical
care units (LiDCOplus) and the operating
theatre (LiDCOrapid). Both the LiDCOplus
and the LiDCOrapid are high value, high
margin products with strong intellectual
property protection. 
We continued to improve our products
during the year with software upgrades 
and additional features that improve 
delivery of data to the clinician.
Compatibility with other healthcare 
systems and technologies has further
enhanced our products’ appeal, and LiDCO
monitors now have connectivity to Philips’
and GE’s hospital information systems. 
The marketing collaboration signed with
Argon Medical in the UK in March of this
year will provide our UK sales force with
additional, well established products
complementing and strengthening our
own offering. 
Market access
Minimally invasive hemodynamic monitoring
is the fastest growing segment within the
European patient monitoring market, and
the UK is leading Europe in terms of its rate 
of adoption of the technology. In the UK we
have a direct sales and nurse educator team
successfully increasing our installed base 
in this major market and growing sales 
by 29% in the year. 
In the USA, our partner is Covidien: 
a leading global healthcare products
company. In 2010 Covidien strengthened 
its sales team, surgery franchise and
combination technology offering,
enhancing LiDCO’s access to this 
lucrative market.
Theresa Wallis
Chairman 7
LiDCO Annual Report
2010/11
Evidence and awareness
An increasing body of evidence shows
improved patient outcomes from the use 
of less invasive hemodynamic monitoring
technologies. In 2010, clinicians demonstrated
the effectiveness of LiDCO products 
in a variety of fields including: major and
bariatric surgery, obstetrics, intensive care
and cardiology. Studies have also been
published showing reduced mortality 
in shock patients as well as reduced length
of stay and complications in surgery
patients that have been hemodynamically
monitored using LiDCO’s products. 
Financial position
LiDCO’s operating loss for the year reduced
from £1.54m to £498,000, on turnover of
£6.24m. With its cash usage reaching its
lowest level ever, at £433,000, the Group
ended the year with £1.40m in cash. 
Dr David Band 
In April, Dr David Band, the Group’s 
co-founder and Scientific Director resigned
from the Board after many years of service.
We are very grateful for his important
contribution to the Group. I am delighted
he has agreed to continue advising LiDCO
with regard to product development. 
Prospects
Hospitals are under increasing pressure 
to cut costs and improve efficiency and
patient outcomes. These challenges 
present significant opportunities for LiDCO,
as our products can reduce costly patient
complications and hospital stay lengths,
while providing significant improvements
to quality of care. We have worked hard 
to position ourselves to respond to the
escalating demand. 
I am grateful to our shareholders for their
continuing loyalty to LiDCO in 2010/11 
and my fellow directors for their support. 
I would also like to acknowledge the
valuable contribution made by our Clinical
Advisory Group. Finally I wish to thank our
staff for their enthusiasm and commitment
throughout the year. The year ahead will 
be another challenging one but we are well
placed to continue our progress. 
Theresa Wallis
Chairman
15 April 2011
16%
increase in revenues 
this year
26%
growth in unit sales 
of disposables
The pressures on hospitals to cut
costs and improve efficiency present
significant opportunities for LiDCO.
