 6
LiDCO Annual Report
2011/12
Chairman’s statement
Products
LiDCO produces the LiDCOplus for critical 
care use and, since 2008, the LiDCOrapid  
for use in surgery. Each of these comprises 
monitors and disposables used for the 
measurement of hemodynamic parameters 
and their display in a manner designed to 
facilitate clinical treatment. 
During the year LiDCO’s intellectual 
property position was strengthened as  
we continued with our programme of 
product improvement and innovation. 
Furthermore, LiDCO’s product offering  
in the UK was expanded by a range of 
complementary specialty critical care 
products, which we began distributing  
for our partner Argon Medical. 
Looking ahead, we see the convergence  
of multiple parameters onto a single 
monitor as an increasingly important 
means of enabling hospitals to save costs, 
whilst improving quality of care. During the 
year a focus of our development activities 
was therefore to refine the software 
architecture of our products in order to 
enable a variety of parameters, whether 
measured using LiDCO or third party 
sensors, to be integrated for display on  
a single monitor, and to enable specific 
elements of our proprietary monitoring 
software to be licenced to partners. 
Access
We continued to work closely with 
Covidien, our US distribution partner for the 
LiDCOrapid and were encouraged by the 
commitment they showed to our products 
and developing the market for them. 
Four new partnership deals were signed 
during the year, including partners in Japan 
and the US, two of the world’s largest 
markets. Historically LiDCO’s products have 
been supplied through a combination of 
direct sales and a network of distributors. 
More recently we have been looking  
to intellectual property licensing 
collaborations as supplementary channels 
to market and our first software licensing 
contract was signed in July 2011. 
The year ended with LiDCO 
achieving break-even for the 
first time and an EBITDA of over 
£500,000. Revenues increased 
by 14%, reflecting the continued 
growing adoption of our 
technology, interest from licensing 
partners and sales of third party 
products. The year was marked by 
strong progress towards achieving 
a network of partnerships aimed at 
extending our global market reach, 
enhancing our product offering and 
leveraging the Company’s assets 
and sales infrastructure. We closed 
the year with cash of £1.55 million, 
which included debt of £500,000  
to finance costs associated with  
one of these licensing deals.
Theresa Wallis
Chairman 7
LiDCO Annual Report
2011/12
Evidence and Awareness
The recognition of the clinical and 
economic benefits of using minimally 
invasive hemodynamic monitoring  
has continued to grow. In the UK, the 
Department of Health’s drive for Quality, 
Innovation, Productivity and Prevention 
(QIPP) underpins the growing interest  
in the use of fluid optimisation during 
surgery. This has significant implications  
for LiDCO as our products can be used  
for the management of fluid and oxygen 
delivery in critical care and high risk  
surgery patients. 
We were again well represented at 
conferences and tradeshows around the 
world during the year and our simulator-
based training programmes continued  
to be popular with doctors and nurses. 
Prospects
Independent research shows that cardiac 
output monitoring is the fastest growing 
sector within the European monitoring 
market. With the UK government taking 
steps to include fluid management into 
routine practice for high risk surgery, we 
believe the progress made by the Company 
last year in terms of sales, market access  
in the US and Japan and product 
development, leaves us in a strong position 
to take advantage of the opportunities that 
are open to us. 
We will continue to work on collaborations 
aimed at driving both the use of 
disposables in our own and third parties’ 
installed bases of monitors, and developing 
a single multi-parameter monitor.  
This coming year we expect to see the 
development of our first completely 
non-invasive hemodynamic monitoring 
product, which could provide access  
to a disposable revenue stream of 
approximately US$1.720 billion. 
I would like to thank our shareholders  
for their continued support, my fellow 
directors and the staff at LiDCO for their 
hard work and our Clinical Advisory Group 
for their valuable insights and feedback. 
Professor David Bennett, a member of  
our Clinical Advisory Group since 2005,  
passed away in February this year and we 
will very much miss him; both as a friend  
of LiDCO and a wise contributor to our 
Advisory Group.
Theresa Wallis
Chairman
23 April 2012
