 6
LiDCO Annual Report
2012/13
Chairman’s statement
During the year, LiDCO made 
signiﬁcant progress, marked  
in particular by strong sales  
growth in the UK. We also  
gained access to the Japanese 
market and successfully completed 
the development of our new 
generation hemodynamic monitor. 
Overall the Group made a small loss 
after tax of £117,000, although 
EBITDA remained positive.
Theresa Wallis  
Chairman
Products
The completion of the LiDCOrapidv2  
with Unity software, both on time and on 
budget, was a key milestone. The product – 
including the continuous non-invasive 
blood pressure module – achieved  
a CE mark within a week of the year-end, 
allowing sales in Europe to commence.  
In March the FDA cleared the LiDCOrapidv2 
with Unity software and depth of 
anesthesia display for sale in the US. 
This new generation monitor platform  
is instrumental to full realisation of the 
hemodynamic monitoring opportunity.  
It enables completely non-invasive patient 
monitoring, with integration and co-display 
of complementary parameters supplied by 
third parties. As a result, usability of LiDCO’s 
monitors is extended to a wider spectrum 
of surgery patients. This development 
enables improved quality of care while 
reducing the number of monitors required 
and lowering costs for care providers. 
The ﬁrst of the third party parameters  
to have been incorporated is depth of 
anesthesia and we are working to integrate 
additional complementary parameters. 
Importantly, the existing installed base of 
LiDCOrapid monitors can be upgraded to 
provide the new functionality. 
Access
Our strategy is to sell to – and service –  
our UK customers directly. We operate 
predominantly via distributors overseas; in 
the smaller territories through independent 
distributors and in the major markets such 
as USA and Japan, through larger medical 
device corporations. 
During the year, we ﬁnalised the 
arrangements necessary to access  
the Japanese market. These included 
registration and reimbursement approval 
and signing an exclusive distribution 
arrangement with Nihon Kohden  
and Argon Medical. Our partnership 
arrangements in Japan now give our 
LiDCOrapid monitor and disposables access 
to the world’s second biggest market for 
hemodynamic monitoring.
We have taken back direct responsibility  
for sales in the US, following the negotiated 
termination of our distribution partnership 
with Covidien. Discussions are ongoing 
with a number of potential partners in  
this market.  7
LiDCO Annual Report
2012/13
Evidence and awareness
Hemodynamic monitoring is a part of an 
eﬀective and standardised clinical pathway 
to optimise high risk surgery patients. 
During the year, the NHS published  
its Intraoperative Fluid Management 
Technologies Adoption Pack. In the UK, 
demand for our surgery product is 
increasingly being driven by the NHS’s 
promotion of advanced ﬂuid management 
in up to a further 760,000 surgery patients 
per annum. 
Governance
John Barry, Sales & Marketing Director, left 
the Company in August. We are grateful for 
his contribution to the Company over his 
11 years of service, during which he helped 
establish our technology in the critical care 
and high-risk surgery arenas. Terry O’Brien 
has taken over direct responsibility for the 
management of the Company’s sales and 
marketing activities. 
Prospects
In 2013 we expect sales to be driven by  
the increased appreciation of the clinical 
and economic beneﬁts of hemodynamic 
monitoring, particularly in the UK where it 
is estimated that full adoption could save 
the NHS £400 million per annum. 
The extension of LiDCO’s product oﬀering 
to include non-invasive monitoring will 
further increase the number and range of 
accessible surgery patients, initially in the 
UK and Europe. 
We expect sales of both monitors and 
disposables to be driven increasingly by 
their use in measuring complementary 
parameters sourced from third party 
sensors – and from a broader population  
of patients requiring non-invasive access.  
In addition, we expect sales to be further 
driven by the opening up of the Japanese 
market, estimated at US$285 million for 
arterial line patients. In the US, the outcome 
of current discussions with potential 
partners will inform the nature of our 
approach to this market over the longer 
term. In the meantime, selling directly in 
the US will generate higher margins. 
The fundraising in November enabled us to 
acquire the US installed base of LiDCOrapid 
surgery monitors following the changes to 
our US distribution arrangements. It also 
facilitates faster access to the non-invasive 
opportunity in the UK and other territories 
and the Company’s overdraft was repaid. 
Cash at the year-end was £2 million.
I would like to thank our shareholders  
for their continued support, my fellow 
directors and the staﬀ at LiDCO for their 
hard work and our Clinical Advisory Group 
for their valuable insights and feedback. 
2012/13 was a challenging year, but the 
Company ﬁnished the year in a position  
of strength. 
Theresa Wallis
Chairman
22 April 2013
