 ANGLE plc  Annu Al Repo Rt And Accounts 2006
02
ANGLE at a glance
ANGLE is an international Consulting, 
Management and Ventures company 
focusing on the commercialisation of 
technology and the development of 
technology-based industry.
g EOg Ra Phic REach
ANGLE  operates  in  the  world’s  two  most  important  technology  commercialisation  markets.  Its  risk-managed  approach  is    designed  to  maximise  the  returns  for  shareholders  across  a  diverse  portfolio    of  technologies  and  markets.
OUR PEOPl E
Our  experienced  management  team  includes  senior  executives  with  technological  and  commercial  backgrounds  and  expertise  in  bioscience,  computing,  electronics,  energy,  life  sciences,  materials  technology  and  software. ANGLE plc  Annu Al Repo Rt And Accounts 2006
03
c reating wealth in partnership with Ip owners
c Ons Ulting 
The successful development of any new 
technology requires a combination of 
technological skills, finance and 
management. ANGLE provides 
consulting services to design and 
develop technology commercialisation 
support programmes, undertake market 
and technology due diligence and 
develop commercialisation strategies.
Manag EMEnt
The successful delivery of any new 
technology programme requires 
access to a skilled management 
team. ANGLE provides a fully 
managed service for the delivery  
of technology commercialisation 
programmes including science 
parks, product development 
services and investment funds.
VEnt UREs
ANGLE founds, develops and 
operates its own technology-based 
businesses. Utilising our in-house 
Progeny
®
 process, we commercialise 
intellectual property (IP) developed  
by our IP partners.
‡ ‡ ‡
PROgEny
®
 PROc Ess
Using  its  unique  Progeny
®
  process,  ANGLE  selects  and  exploits  those  technologies  that  will  have  a  step-change  impact  in  a  significant  market.  Progeny
®
  intimately  links  high-calibre  management  with  the  source  of  capital,  enabling  ANGLE  to  successfully  create  new  technology  businesses  and  overcome  many  of  the  risks  associated  with  early-
stage  investment.  ANGLE  works  in  partnership  with  universities,  companies  and  research  organisations  that  are  recognised  sources  of  ground-
breaking  intellectual  property.
