 Chairman’s Statement
Page 08 ANGLE plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
I am pleased to report a number of significant achievements and
improved results for the year ended 30 April 2008.
Results
The Group profit before controlled investments and tax was £3.4 million
(2007: loss £6.1 million). Profit before tax was £1.1 million (2007: loss £9.3
million). After careful management and an expensed investment of £2.3
million (2007: £3.1 million) into the existing portfolio, cash at £1.0 million
(2007: £2.6 million) remains materially unchanged from that at the
interims. The fair value of the portfolio doubled to £7.3 million (2007: £3.7
million) and this does not include the fair value of the controlled
investments in the portfolio.
Management services
This business has improved its focus, cost efficiency and profitability. As
well as winning a number of significant new business opportunities, the
division has leveraged its existing strong client relationships to secure
extensions to existing contracts.
The UK has performed particularly strongly but the Company also has a
number of new quotation opportunities in the Middle East to replace the
existing Qatar contract as it approaches successful completion in March
2009. The long term nature of ANGLE’s management contracts provides
the Company with a high level of visibility of future cash generation and
therefore enables costs to be matched against known contract
requirements. The portfolio is maturing well with a substantially enhanced
valuation reported in the year and there is now a reduced
demand on ANGLE’s cash. The Management services business
has, at the same time, become more efficient and more resilient.
Investment Portfolio
Our investment strategy continues to be focused on the existing portfolio.
The core aim is to maximise the development of each business, but also
move towards a position where each operation becomes both less
dependent on financing from ANGLE and more attractive to new third
party investors or acquirers, both from financial and industry sources. 
ANGLE has seen good progress to date in its portfolio companies. Aguru
has won and successfully delivered its first contract to a major film studio;
Geomerics is building a significant prospect list for its computer game
graphics; Parsortix has proved its ability to separate foetal material using
a blood sample from the pregnant mother and has had the results
independently assessed by a leading independent expert in the field.
Each of these operations has proven proprietary technology addressing
large growth markets.
ANGLE’s business model of holding substantial equity stakes and playing
an active role in the management of its investments enables the
Company to help drive value creation and maximise the prospect of
ANGLE receiving a substantial return on its investment at exit.
Bid approach
In April, ANGLE announced that it had received an approach, which
may or may not lead to a formal offer for the Company. The proposed
consideration is in the prospective bidder’s shares. 
The Board is considering the proposal with particular regard to whether
the offer would be likely to result in enhanced value for ANGLE
shareholders taking into account a range of factors. These include the
strategic fit of the two businesses, the impact of a merger upon the
generation of significant realisations from ANGLE’s investment portfolio
and the quality of the prospective bidder’s paper.
Outlook
The portfolio is maturing well with a substantially enhanced valuation
reported in the year and there is now a reduced demand on ANGLE’s
cash. The Management services business has, at the same time, become
more efficient and more resilient. Cash will continue to need careful
management but the Board believes that the opportunity remains for the
portfolio to produce significant shareholder returns from the currently
available resources. 
The substantial efforts involved to achieve these goals reflect the hard
work of ANGLE’s staff and the Board thanks them sincerely for their
continuing efforts.
Garth Selvey
Chairman
9 July 2008
ANGLE plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Page 09
