 Chairman’s Statement
Page 08 ANGLE plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Introduction
ANGLE has continued to make progress during a difficult economic
period.
Cash remains well managed; the growth rate in the ongoing
Management services business, excluding the now completed Qatar
contract, is high; an extensive Middle East prospect list has been
developed; and much has been done to protect the potential of the
portfolio companies.
Equally, cash remains tight; large management services contracts take
time to win; funding and exit opportunities have reduced for portfolio
companies, revenue development within those companies has slowed
and valuations have consequently been reduced.
ANGLE is successfully reshaping its Management services business and
has done much to protect its portfolio against clearly adverse market
conditions and increased risks. The outlook is challenging but the
potential for success remains. Strong profitability in the
Management services business.
Results
I am pleased to report strong profitability in the Management services
business for the year ended 30 April 2009 with sharply increased revenues
and profits. Profit before tax from Management services increased by
41% to £1.6 million (2008: £1.1 million) after all costs.
This profit was offset by the costs of operating, managing and developing
the portfolio, which reduced by 44% to £0.9 million (2008: £1.6 million) and
by planned expenditure on the controlled investments, which was down
52% at £1.1 million (2008: £2.3 million).
The fair value of the investment portfolio was written down by £2.9 million
during the year (2008: write up £3.9 million) to reflect concerns as to how
the recession will affect the prospects for these businesses.
After these provisions, the loss before tax was £3.4 million (2008: profit
£1.1 million).
Overheads have been substantially reduced across the business and
during the year operating profits substantially exceeded operating costs
prior to discretionary expenditure on controlled investments.
Management services
ANGLE’s Management services business is cash generative and has
continued to grow profitably with revenues up 28% at £4.9 million (2008:
£3.8 million). The business has thus far proved resilient in current economic
conditions as a result of its specialist areas of activity and the long term
contracts under which it operates.
Portfolio companies
ANGLE has continued to tighten its focus on its existing portfolio of
investments, with increasing emphasis on its leading investments. ANGLE
continues to retain large equity stakes in a small number of portfolio
companies with high growth potential and, because of its high level of
ownership is able to control and manage these investments to maximise
the eventual return to ANGLE shareholders. ANGLE has holdings ranging
from 47% to 82% in its leading investments.
ANGLE’s controlled investments are consolidated so that their fair value is
not included in the investment portfolio fair value on the balance sheet
and their operating costs are expensed in the results.
During the year, Novocellus, ANGLE’s 82%-owned IVF embryo viability
subsidiary completed a corporate deal with Origio a/s (formerly known
as MediCult a/s). This deal has the potential to deliver substantial returns
to ANGLE from milestone payments and royalties for many years.
The adverse market conditions have resulted in a severe lack of funding
for venture capital investment on reasonable terms. ANGLE has therefore
focused its portfolio companies on revenue generation, cost
containment and corporate deals.
Cashflow
Cash was carefully managed during the year and at £0.3 million at
30 April 2009 is in line with management expectations, slightly reduced
from the position at 31 October 2008. The reduction in cash since
1 May 2008 was as a result of discretionary investment expenditure on
our controlled investments.
The profit before tax generated during the year by the Management
services business of £1.6 million (2008: £1.1 million) substantially exceeded
the Ventures and all other cash operating costs of the business for the
year of £0.8 million (2008: £1.4 million) leaving the surplus available for
discretionary expenditure on controlled investments.
With a modest level of new sales and continuing strong management of
overheads, the cash generated by the Management services business is
expected to more than cover the costs of managing the portfolio thus
allowing ANGLE to take the time necessary to maximise the value of its
investments.
Outlook
ANGLE is seeking to grow its specialist Management services business
further and has strengthened its business development activities in
the Middle East with that in mind. It will also retain and manage its
investments in the portfolio of substantially cash independent companies
which ANGLE has founded and developed. The medium term business
plan envisages growing trading profits from Management services
enhanced by returns from dividend, milestone payments, royalties and
capital returns from its investments.
ANGLE’s venture management and technology commercialisation skills
are marketable and of increasing relevance as global economies focus
on regeneration, innovation and value added components to their
industries. ANGLE’s technology skills in IT and software, medical and life
sciences, clean tech and renewable energies are directly relevant to
major growth markets of the future.
The substantial efforts involved during the year to deliver strong
profitability in the Management services business and encouraging
progress in the portfolio companies reflect the hard work of ANGLE’s
staff and the Board thanks them sincerely for their continuing efforts.
Garth Selvey
Chairman
23 July 2009
ANGLE plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Page 09
