 Chief Executive’s
Statement
Page 10 ANGLE plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Introduction
The year ended 30 April 2009 has been a year of continued execution
of our established strategy to build the cash generative Management
services business as a strong platform for the future. Costs have been
reduced, revenues increased and portfolio companies have been
progressed against key milestones.
Management services
ANGLE’s specialist Management services business has continued to
grow year-on-year. Revenues increased 28% during the year to £4.9
million (2008: £3.8 million) and net profit before tax for this business was
41% higher at £1.6 million (2008: £1.1 million). These results reflect the
Company’s success in generating new and additional business to
replace revenues from the Qatar contract, which was completed in
March 2009.
Successful completion of ANGLE’s five year contract to develop the
Qatar Science & Technology Park (QSTP) was a highlight of the year.
The QSTP project was the largest of its kind in the world in recent times,
with the first phase development costing in excess of US$600 million.
Under ANGLE’s management, QSTP has developed a world class physical
infrastructure and environment for technology development and R&D
and has attracted some of the world’s leading companies including
Chevron, Cisco, ConocoPhillips, EADS, ExxonMobil, GE, Hydro, Microsoft,
Shell, Tata and Total as well as leading early stage technology
companies. The portfolio is now substantially
cash independent of ANGLE.
Excluding the QSTP contract, during the year the revenues of the
Management services business grew 60% to £3.2 million. ANGLE has
secured new long term contracts including:
• London Development Agency’s Knowledge Connect Programme
expanded to £5.4 million over three years;
• Carbon trust contract renewal worth up to £1.4 million over three years,
agreed after the year end;
• London Manufacturing Advisory Services contract worth an estimated
£0.7 million over three years, agreed after the year end.
ANGLE’s Management services business is focused on long term
management contracts, typically of three years or more in duration,
and this gives good visibility on future revenues.
Technology based economic development is critical to the future of
many economies. In the current economic conditions, Governments are
seeking to expand their activities in ANGLE’s core areas of activity
including incubation, innovation, support for SMEs (small and medium
sized enterprises) and developing the knowledge-based economy.
The sold order book for the next three years is solid at £4.8 million at
30 June 2009 (30 April 2008: £5.1 million) and there are major efforts
under way to build new business notably in the Middle East.
Portfolio value
ANGLE’s portfolio of investments comprises both non-controlled
investments and controlled investments.
The non-controlled investments are held on the balance sheet at a fair
value of £4.4 million (30 April 2008: £7.3 million). The Board has taken a
robust view of fair values reflecting very difficult economic conditions
and in particular the need to mark to market, an extremely difficult fund
raising and exit environment and uncertainties as to how businesses will
be able to develop in the present climate.
Non-controlled investments
Provexis (functional food and beverages), in which ANGLE holds an 8%
stake valued at £0.5m at the year end and which is quoted on AIM,
completed a £2.5 million equity placing during the year. Since the year
end, the value of Provexis has risen following its announcement of
successful European Health Claim Adoption for the Company's Fruitflow
®
anti-thrombotic technology by the European Food Safety Authority
(“EFSA”).
Acolyte Biomedica (medical diagnostics / MRSA detection): the
deferred consideration due in respect of the sale of the investment in
Acolyte is subject to dispute between the former Acolyte shareholders
and the purchaser. Legal advice has been received that the former
Acolyte shareholders have a strong case although the matter will take
some time to resolve. ANGLE has adopted a strategy to ensure it will not
be exposed to significant legal costs in this matter.
Geomerics (computer games middleware), in which ANGLE holds 47%,
has completed its product development and is building a pipeline of
customers for its Enlighten product. The strength of the product offering
has been demonstrated through sales to Electronic Arts (DICE), CCP and
Zombie and there is now corporate interest from Intel, nVidia, AMD and
Autodesk amongst others.
NeuroTargets (neuropathic pain), in which ANGLE has a 25% stake,
has licensed its intellectual property in relation to neuropathic pain
therapeutic molecules to the University of Bristol, who have used that
background IP to successfully raise further funds to advance the galanin
programme.
ANGLE plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Page 11 Major efforts under way to build new business,
notably in the Middle East.
Chief Executive’s
Statement
Continued
Page 12 ANGLE plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Controlled investments
Controlled investments are consolidated as subsidiaries and are not
shown at fair value on the balance sheet. Their value is excluded from
the fair value of £4.4 million discussed above. During the year, a further
£1.1 million was invested in these companies and expensed.
Novocellus (ANGLE’s 82% subsidiary in medical diagnostics IVF embryo
viability) completed a deal during the year with Origio a/s (formerly
known as MediCult a/s) (OSE: ORO), a leader in Assisted Reproductive
Technologies to acquire the patented, non-invasive embryo selection
technology (EmbryoSure™) that Novocellus has developed. Origio’s
leading market position in global IVF gives access to the largest IVF
customer base in the world for sale of the EmbryoSure product.
The success based milestone and royalty arrangements provide
ANGLE with the potential for exceptional returns on its investment.
Origio will fund and manage a 400 patient trial in a number of leading
UK clinics to statistically validate the extent to which the use of
EmbryoSure will increase the chances of successful pregnancy
compared to current visual techniques used to select the most viable
embryo. Building on the work already undertaken by Novocellus, this trial
is expected to take around twelve months to complete with the product
being commercially launched by the end of 2010.
On successful completion of the trial demonstrating a significant uplift
in clinical pregnancy rates, Origio will make milestone payments to
Novocellus. In addition to milestone payments, Origio will make royalty
payments to Novocellus on net sales of EmbryoSure products in countries
in which patent protection exists, which as at the date of the agreement
are Europe, USA, Japan, Canada, China, India and Australia.
In 2009, it is estimated that there will be over 1,000,000 cycles of IVF
carried out globally, a figure that is growing at more than 4% a year.
A single cycle of IVF costs between £4,000 and £8,000 in a UK private
clinic according to the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority.
Assuming the trial substantiates the increased pregnancy rates offered
by EmbryoSure, Origio believes that EmbryoSure will be widely adopted
and, by virtue of the increased success rates it offers, will justify a premium
price. Parsortix (ANGLE’s 78% subsidiary in medical diagnostics / foetal cell
capture) achieved a world break-through during the year by isolating
foetal cells in maternal blood. Pregnant women have a very small
number of their baby’s cells circulating in their blood. There are thought
to be at most one foetal cell in 500 million maternal cells. Parsortix has
developed a patent protected micro fluidic device which, when 1.5 ml
of the mother’s blood is flowed through the device, can uniquely
capture intact foetal cells for analysis. A number of multinationals have
already expressed interest in Parsortix and ANGLE is exploring the
potential for a corporate deal.
Early definitive diagnosis for chromosomal abnormalities associated with
Down’s, Turner and Klinefelter syndromes, as well as other disorders due
to genetic abnormalities such as spina bifida, can help physicians better
care for both the mother and the foetus during pregnancy. It also gives
families earlier information with respect to the health of the unborn child
and is increasingly important as the mother’s average age increases.
At present, diagnosis is only possible through invasive procedures such as
amniocentesis and chorionic villus sampling (CVS). These carry a risk to
both the baby and the mother and as a result are limited only to high risk
pregnancies. Parsortix’s new device allows completely non-invasive
testing of the unborn baby removing the risk and allowing diagnosis to
be extended as a matter of course to all babies not just those known to
be at high risk. The physical separation process used is simple and cost-
effective. It requires no pre-treatment of the sample and no reagents.
Commercially, Parsortix’s unique patented separation technique will
reduce overall medical costs. In the high risk category, there are currently
375,000 tests per annum in the US market alone. With a non-invasive test,
the market is likely to expand to cover lower risk patients with a
theoretical maximum in the US market alone of 2.6 million tests per
annum. Parsortix has the potential to secure a dominant position in this
separation market. The current cost of the amniocentesis procedure in
the US is around $1,200.
ANGLE has secured strong corporate interest in Parsortix and is currently
exploring corporate deals to bring this technology to market.
Aguru Images completed its first commercial contract successfully
during the year with deployment of its technology in Paramount’s
“GI Joe”, but has since been severely frustrated in its sales process by
the year-long actors’ dispute and the threat of a Hollywood strike.
Considerable progress was made towards a corporate deal and towards
securing investment capital but in both cases the delay in securing sales
made it impossible to complete these transactions. As a result of the
exceptionally adverse trading conditions, the company now faces
serious difficulties. This is very disappointing given the strength of the
company’s technology offering. The investment is held at nil value on
ANGLE’s balance sheet.
Outlook
The Management services business is well established and growing
strongly. Growth prospects in the Middle East are promising and the
Company is in discussions with a number of major new clients.
Lack of liquidity in the wider market has placed considerable stress on
the Group but this is being managed proactively through the reduction
in costs, building of revenues and securing corporate deals for the
portfolio companies.
Cash balances are expected to remain tight for a period before
growing with continued success in the Management services business.
In the future ANGLE may benefit from a range of cashflows including
profits from the Management services business, capital gains from the
sale of investments, dividends from trading investments, and returns from
milestone payments from corporate partners and ongoing royalty
payments.
Andrew Newland
Chief Executive
23 July 2009
ANGLE plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Page 13
