 2 Chairman’s statement LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
This is my first statement as non-executive chairman for
LogicaCMG, following the merger of Logica and CMG. It
reports on the combined performance of the two previously
separate companies, for the six months ended 31 December
2002, and looks forward to the calendar year 2003. 
In 2002, the marketplace for IT services remained difficult
against a backdrop of economic slowdown in most global
economies. Following a decade of strong growth, LogicaCMG –
along with its competitors – was faced with more limited
demand as many customers focused primarily on maintaining
existing systems and those that generate swift cost savings. This
led to pricing pressure and overcapacity in our industry. The
telecommunications and financial services sectors – two markets
key to the exceptional performance of both Logica and CMG
from 1998 to 2000 – were particularly affected. Overall, our IT
services business held its margins firm against falling revenues.
Our wireless networks business was challenged by both
continued restrictions on capital expenditure and slow
migration to new technologies. We nonetheless slowed the rate
of revenue decline significantly and traded above break-even
for the period, partly as a result of previous actions to reduce
the cost base.
We kept disruption from the merger process to a minimum
and, in comparison to our peers, LogicaCMG’s performance in
the six months to 31 December 2002 was creditable. Our staff
remained focused on delivering results and I would like to
register my thanks for their efforts. As indicated in our recent
update to the financial markets, the results were broadly in line
with our expectations at the time of the merger. Nonetheless,
basic earnings per share* were down 9% at 5.2p.
The continued fall in stock market valuations over the last year
has required us to make a further write-down of goodwill
associated with earlier acquisitions. This non-cash item
amounted to £444.6 million and now leaves £369.4 million of
goodwill on the balance sheet.
In addition to the LogicaCMG merger, we continued to
consider opportunities to strengthen specific parts of our
business through niche acquisitions. In September, we acquired
eGlobal Pacific, an Australian SAP consulting firm, while, in
November, we acquired Great Lakes Technologies Group, of
Michigan USA, to enhance our offering to the automotive
industry. We will continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities
on their merits.
*Before goodwill, restructuring costs and other exceptional items.
Chairman’s statement www.logicacmg.com Chairman’s statement 3
Shares and dividend
Shares in LogicaCMG continue to have their primary listing on
the London Stock Exchange, with a secondary listing
maintained on Euronext in Amsterdam, recognising the
continued importance of the Dutch marketplace for our
combined business. On 3 March 2003, Euronext increased the
weighting for LogicaCMG in the premier AEX index, requiring
index tracker funds to increase their holdings. 
For the period ended 31 December 2002, the board has
recommended a dividend of 3p per share. Our policy is to
ensure that shareholders benefit directly and smoothly from the
successful growth of the business while continuing to provide
sufficient funds to invest in future growth. Based on the total
dividend of 5.4p per Logica share for the financial year ended 30
June 2002, it is expected that, in the current climate,
LogicaCMG will maintain the value of the dividend in real terms
for the financial year ending 31 December 2003.
Board changes 
The LogicaCMG board is drawn from both previous entities. A
number of directors have in consequence stood down, including the
Logica non-executive chairman, Sir Frank Barlow. I would like to
thank all retiring directors for their contribution to the development
of the two companies and for their support through the merger . I
also greatly appreciate the help that my new colleagues have given
me in quickly creating a new, cohesive team.
Having spent most of the last 14 years as a CEO, of which the last
two years were spent at CMG, Alistair Crawford has informed the
board that he wishes to pursue similar leadership opportunities.
Alistair has resigned from the board with effect from 4 March 2003
and will support the company in various integration activities over
the next several months in line with his contractual notice period.
The board is grateful for his support both in the process of achieving
the merger and in helping to plan and implement the early phases of
integration. The board wishes him well in his future career .
Outlook
In IT services, we see some evidence of price stability in our largest
markets, the UK and the Netherlands, as customers concentrate
their purchasing on a smaller number of suppliers with a proven
track record of delivery. However , demand in systems integration
and consulting remains weak as customers focus on cost reduction
and maximising returns from existing investments. LogicaCMG is
well positioned to benefit from an increasing appetite to outsource
mission-critical processes, with an established capability supported
by our offshore competence. The economic climate in France and
Germany continues to deteriorate, increasing pressure on rates in
our least differentiated businesses.
Greater headcount reductions and other cost saving measures will
strengthen margins. However , given the longer timescale to effect
headcount reductions in mainland Europe, we anticipate some
pressure on overall margins during the first half of 2003. As more of
the cost reductions come on-line during the second half, we expect
margins to improve, with a further increase during 2004 as the full
impact of the cost savings comes through.
In wireless networks, the progress on multimedia and associated
services is encouraging, although estimates of when the
penetration of new handsets will reach critical mass and associated
volume-based revenues take effect, remain tentative at this early
stage. We are leveraging our market position to maximise our
return from the short messaging service (SMS) marketplace that
remains an important, though declining, source of revenue. Our
combined product portfolio, backed by a streamlined
development, distribution and support organisation, strengthens
our competitive position considerably, underpinned by a customer
base of some 260 operators delivering a solid maintenance
revenue stream. We plan to manage our costs effectively as we
negotiate our path through the technology transition, which
inevitably causes uncertainty and less visibility of revenue. We are
projecting an R&D spend of approximately £55 million for the
current year , compared to a combined spend of nearly £70 million
in calendar year 2002. We have already proposed some 485
redundancies in our wireless networks operations. These actions
give us a cost base designed to at least break even at the operating
level for the full year , recognising that product uncertainty at the
beginning of the year and the timing of cost reductions will impact
the first half.
Our customers are facing demands for greater efficiency and
virtually every attempt to improve performance or enhance channels
to market involves an IT dimension. The merger strengthens our
ability to win market share and to benefit from any improvement in
demand. We remain focused on managing our costs tightly,
capitalising on the cross-selling opportunities the merger has
created, and delivering value-added services to clients.
Cor Stutterheim
Chairman
