 Market background
The IT services industry was born in the 1960s and has enjoyed
strong growth in most years since. This growth accelerated
dramatically in the late 1990s with the rapid expansion of the
internet and preparations for the millennium and the introduction of
the euro. However , since 2001 , life has been very different. Every
business in the sector has had to deal with the first steep and
sustained downturn in the industry.
In this environment, LogicaCMG’s response has been to manage
costs tightly and to address overcapacity in line with reduced
demand. As a result, in the six months under review, we raised our
operating margin in IT services against falling demand and managed
to keep our wireless networks business profitable despite continuing
constraints on capital investment by our customers.
Our customers have different priorities in uncertain times. They
focus on essentials and look for faster returns on their IT
investments. They concentrate primarily on maintaining and
optimising what they have, rather than on installing new systems. T o
get greater certainty of cost at lower risk, they look to outsource
non-core activities or contract via longer term and fixed price
arrangements. More generally, they want to deal with a smaller
number of suppliers who can provide them with a broader range of
offerings, who can support them internationally and who have a
track record of delivering quality work on time and to budget.
Increasingly, they need to be confident that their chosen suppliers
will still be there to support them in the years ahead.
Merger dynamics
Given this market background, the merger of Logica and CMG
makes compelling sense. It gives the new company increased
strength, scale and breadth to drive revenues in a consolidating
market. It brings new momentum to the business because we
can sell products and skills from both former companies to each
other’s customers. It also provides us with the means to lower
operating costs through the creation of a single management,
delivery and support structure for the combined customer base. 
The opportunities provided by the merger are substantial:
• Cross-selling
The overlap of major customers between the two companies
was relatively small and their geographical spread was
different. Hence, the potential for selling our respective skills
and products into already established customers is significant.
Our initial analysis of the most promising short-term
opportunities identified some 60 situations to be targeted
and we are continuing to add to them. For example, in human
resources and payroll systems, CMG has an offering
developed over more than 30 years that is relevant to every
Logica customer that has not yet outsourced these processes.
Chief executive’s review
“
The merger of Logica and CMG makes compelling sense. 
It gives the new company increased strength, scale and
breadth to drive revenues in a consolidating market. 
It provides new momentum to the business and the means 
to lower operating costs.
”
4 Chief executive’s review LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 • Repeatable solutions
We now have a much larger portfolio of mission-critical,
repeatable solutions to deploy globally. For example, in the
banking sector , Logica’s products in settlements, card transaction
processing, security and financial messaging can be introduced to
established CMG customers. Similarly, CMG’s expertise in bank
regulatory reporting, risk management systems and capital
adequacy reporting for compliance with the Basel II Accord, can
be taken to Logica customers, particularly in countries where
CMG had no presence at all. Many other opportunities exist in
sectors such as energy and utilities and automotive.
• Better leverage of accounts
CMG has demonstrated, most notably in the Benelux countries,
the power of managing deep customer and alliance relationships
over years, even decades. By extending this experience and
methodology across the combined group, we are able to
maximise the cross-selling potential in the short-term and the
development of revenues and margins into the future.
• Meeting the need for outsourcing
An increased depth of resources is particularly powerful when
competing for outsourcing business and large public sector
tenders. LogicaCMG targets value-based outsourcing, where
industry and business process knowledge are critical.
Successful delivery requires a high degree of flexibility and 
a comprehensive portfolio of business solutions, both of which
have been enhanced by the merger.
• Adding the offshore dimension
The availability of offshore facilities is a competitive tool of
growing importance. For example, I visited our Bangalore facility in
India just six weeks into the merger and reviewed the top 10
prospects that had been brought to them by LogicaCMG
operations around the world. Three of those prospects had
originated from former CMG business units which previously had
no such offering available to them. Combining offshore
development and support with our enlarged, locally-based teams
of industry experts and account managers will enable our
customers to get the benefit of reduced cost, within an
environment of seamless planning and delivery. 
www.logicacmg.com Chief executive’s review 5 A stronger wireless networks business
The combination of our two mobile telecom businesses positions us
as the only tier one, global player that is independent of the handset
and infrastructure vendors. We can now address our customer base
of more than 260 operators worldwide using one streamlined, cost-
effective global structure. We moved swiftly to remove the customer
uncertainty that inevitably arises when two companies with
competing products are brought together . In February, our
combined product strategy and development plan for wireless
networks was presented to the market at the 3GSM World Congress
in Cannes and was very well received. 
Despite the market downturn, short messaging service (SMS)
volumes are continuing to grow and fixed-line operators are
now beginning to offer this facility to their users. Moreover, the
traffic generated by applications beyond interpersonal
messaging – such as promotions, games, voting, TV-interaction
and location-based services – is now reaching meaningful levels.
These applications generate a significant level of peak traffic
which, taken together with interpersonal SMS volume growth,
meant that some tier one European operators returned to
LogicaCMG for major capacity upgrades during the last six
months of 2002. We believe that SMS product and maintenance
revenues will remain important for years to come.
In multimedia messaging, we continue to make progress with sales
and installations. Competition from the handset and infrastructure
vendors remains fierce. However , we are confident that our track
record for delivering high performance, high reliability systems will
prevail, as volumes increase and the issues of inter-operability and
service diversity become more pressing. The T elecom Italia Group is
the first tangible example of a tier one operator that launched
multimedia services using system components from their
infrastructure suppliers, before going on to sign a framework
agreement with LogicaCMG.
In unified communications, there is a large installed base of ageing
voicemail systems that needs upgrading to internet protocol (IP)
standards so that voice, fax and email traffic can be handled in a
consistent and interchangeable fashion. LogicaCMG’s uOne product
is well placed to address this market. In addition, the wireless
platforms we are providing to Hutchison 3G globally are based on a
unified communications structure that incorporates multimedia
messaging, SMS, delivery of video content and other functionality
via an attractive and consistent user interface. They demonstrate the
direction in which the wireless market is moving.
“
The new business will be much stronger and will
provide increased scope to broaden the experience of
our people. Our goal is to create an open, meritocratic
and performance-oriented company in which the best
people can build their careers.
”
6 Chief executive’s review LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 In billing, we continue to secure revenues with our prepay products
and are broadening our offerings across the total billing spectrum.
There are growing synergies between our wireless networks business
and our wider exposure to the sector through our systems
integration capability. For example, we have been working during the
period on a next generation customer care and billing system for
Vodafone in Sweden which integrates prepaid and postpaid
customers for both voice and data services. In addition, we are
already generating revenues by enabling banking, ticketing, voting
and access control over wireless networks. We believe that mobility
applications will be a key differentiator and revenue source for
LogicaCMG in the years ahead.
Crucially, emerging markets for higher bandwidth mobile
communications demand far more than just the delivery of software
‘black boxes’. Users will demand much richer content if they are to
pay more to their operators and service providers. Much of this
content will come from third party suppliers and applications and
will need integrating onto the delivery platform. Billing will need to
reflect the relative values of the different services and content
chosen. Content enablement may need to be hosted and managed
in a different environment. All these are opportunities that favour
LogicaCMG with its unique product offerings and proven system
integration expertise across many industries and technologies.
Integrating the two businesses
The merger of two leading international companies is clearly
complex. From the outset, we approached this task with clear
targets, detailed planning and a determined pace. As a result,
integration is progressing well. Focused teams, working to 
agreed plans and milestones, are systematically addressing the
remaining elements of the integration, much of which has 
already been completed.
As a result of these efforts, the merger is now expected to deliver
savings above our initial estimates, through the rationalisation of
premises and higher than anticipated headcount reductions. 
The reductions in staff numbers are a painful but necessary element
of the integration and I realise this is a very difficult time for our
staff. However , it is vital that we align our headcount to the needs of
our combined and streamlined business and position ourselves to
prosper when markets pick up. Our overriding principle is that
clarity and speed are in the best interests of our people and the
business. As a result, the integration task is well on the way to
completion in many of our operations. In the remainder , detailed
consultation with individuals and staff representative bodies
continues in accordance with local legislation. 
Over 90% of our people will continue to have a role in the new
business, which will be much stronger and will provide increased
scope to broaden experience and more opportunities to work on
large, mission-critical projects for a variety of customers. There will
be more overseas assignments available for those who want to
travel, and staff will be exposed to new ideas and approaches to
doing business from their new colleagues. Our goal is to create an
open, meritocratic and performance-oriented company in which the
best people can build their careers.
LogicaCMG today
Our company is now a major international force in IT services and
wireless telecoms, with around 21 ,000 people in 34 countries. Our
customers have access to a broader range of offerings across key
industry sectors from a single supplier . We can offer them a strong
global distribution and support network and long-term operational
strength, dependability and certainty.
We are, therefore, well placed to pursue our mission of helping
leading organisations worldwide achieve their business objectives,
through the innovative delivery of information technology and
business process solutions.
Our strategy is one of market focus and differentiation based on:
• value-added, mission-critical, repeatable, global offerings
• strong relationships with customers, partners, suppliers and 
staff and
• full service provision covering consultancy, design, systems
integration, products and outsourcing
While this strategy cannot insulate us from today’s economic and
political uncertainty, it will enable us to maximise our
performance in difficult times.
Areas of growth in today’s difficult market still exist and we are
determined to seize them. Our merger creates particular
opportunities through cross-selling our skills and products, delivering
more repeatable solutions, leveraging our accounts and meeting the
need for outsourcing, including offshore services. 
In any medium-term view, we continue to regard IT as an attractive
industry to be in. It affects every aspect of business and government.
Whenever an organisation seeks to offer a new service, make a
change in its operations, achieve greater efficiencies or achieve
competitive edge, it needs to invest in IT . While today’s uncertainty
creates lack of confidence and purchasing delays in the short-term,
pent-up demand for IT services is building. At LogicaCMG, we are
positioning ourselves strongly for an upturn but we are not waiting
for it, nor making assumptions as to when it will arrive. In the
meantime, our merger places us in a good position to deliver value
for our stakeholders over the coming year .
Martin Read
Group chief executive
www.logicacmg.com Chief executive’s review 7
