 P4 Chief executive’s review  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
Chief executive’s review
Overall, 2005 was a good year for
LogicaCMG. We delivered a significant
improvement in profitability, order intake was
strong and we accelerated the pace of the
revenue growth we established in 2004. We
also took two significant strategic steps
forward in 2005, with the acquisitions of
Edinfor and, most importantly, Unilog. Both
these acquisitions have helped us build the
scale we need to take advantage of improving
market conditions and our customers’ desire
to do business with a smaller number of larger
suppliers who can provide them with a
broader range of offerings and who can
support them internationally. 
With Edinfor we have shown that we can win
a very substantial outsourcing contract against
the biggest and the best international
competition. With Unilog we have significantly
increased our scale and geographical balance.
These two acquisitions enable us to shape our
future much better in a consolidating market.
Today, LogicaCMG employs around 30,000
employees in 36 countries. We have an
extensive international network with a
particularly strong presence in the UK, France
and the Netherlands. 
With the market for IT services continuing to
improve, the solid groundwork that we laid
following the merger of Logica and CMG at
the end of 2002 is now delivering widespread
benefits. We have always had a clear vision
for our future. We aim to create a worldwide
top ten player in IT services with a balanced
market sector profile, a powerful global
delivery capability and with 30 to 40 per cent
of group revenues derived from value-based
outsourcing. In 2005, we made excellent
progress towards achieving these goals. 
Year of achievement
Despite difficult conditions in some European
territories, we grew our revenues in most of
our major markets and we continued to
improve our profitability.  
Our UK business performed well. Outsourcing
led the way in the UK, as elsewhere, with
major contracts won from the Ministry of
Defence, Transport for London and Thames
Water. The Netherlands continued to achieve
good revenue growth with Financial Services
performing particularly strongly.
In France we completed our programme to
cut overheads at our existing French business
and focused on the better targeting of our
pre-sales efforts. This has enabled us to
benefit from the improving market
environment. The German market remained
difficult for LogicaCMG in 2005. However, the
enhanced scale and strengthened consulting
and systems integration skills resulting from
the acquisition of Unilog put us in a better
position to improve the operating performance
of our business in Germany. In Iberia, Edinfor
made a significant contribution, despite only
formally joining the group in late April last year.  
In 2005, we moved our telecoms products
business back into profit, buoyed by demand
for messaging products, with operators
undertaking significant upgrades to Internet-
based capabilities and increasing demand for
additional capacity, particularly from operators
in developing countries.   LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Chief executive’s review  P5
Outperforming in outsourcing 
Outsourcing remains one of our most
important growth areas. The markets in which
we operate are consolidating and becoming
more international. There is a noticeable trend
towards larger, more complex deals being
awarded to a smaller number of larger
suppliers who have access to a more
comprehensive set of offerings.
In 2005, we combined our worldwide service
units to create an integrated global service
delivery organisation (GSD) able to deliver a
full range of outsourcing and business process
solutions and services to our customers.
Through our ‘blended sourcing model’ we
provide our customers with the optimal
combination of onsite, onshore, nearshore 
and offshore resources, offering them a
seamless service across the geographies in
which they operate. 
Our service centres in territories such as India,
the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Wales (where
we opened a new centre near Bridgend) and
Portugal provide our customers with a full
range of onshore, nearshore and offshore
application development, applications and
infrastructure management, product
engineering and, increasingly, business
process outsourcing. We continue to develop
our presence in India where we now have over
2,000 staff and aim to grow this to around
3,000 by the year end. 
Strategic developments
In September 2005 we announced our
intention to purchase Unilog, a top five IT
services company in France. This £630 million
transaction successfully closed at the
beginning of 2006 with around 97% of
shareholders accepting our offer during the
tender period. France now becomes our third
major profit and revenue generator in Europe,
complementing our already strong positions in
the UK and the Netherlands, improving our
geographical balance and giving us increased
global scale to win even bigger contracts.
Unilog has a long track record of success
and, like LogicaCMG, employs highly talented
people with deep industry knowledge and a
strong commitment to delivery. We are
pleased to welcome our new colleagues from
Unilog into our group. 
Through Unilog we have improved our access
to a wide range of blue chip French
customers including EdF, France Telecom and
BNP Paribas. As a combined group we can
now provide these clients with global support
through LogicaCMG’s range of industry
competencies, repeatable solutions and high
quality nearshore and offshore facilities. P6 Chief executive’s review  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
The acquisitions of Edinfor
and, most importantly, Unilog [...]
have helped us build the scale we
need to take advantage of
improving market conditions and
our customers’ desire to do
business with a smaller number
of larger suppliers who can
provide them with a broader
range of offerings and who can
support them internationally. 
”
“ LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Chief executive’s review  P7
The acquisition of Unilog followed the
completion in April last year of our acquisition
of a controlling interest in Edinfor, the IT
business of Energias de Portugal (EDP), and
the signing of a €510 million ten-year
outsourcing contract with EDP. Not only does
the addition of Edinfor give us a strong
presence in the Iberian peninsula, but it also
enhances our position in the important energy
and utilities sector and increases both our
SAP and our global delivery capability. 
The addition of Edinfor and Unilog significantly
strengthens our position on the continent.
Today, LogicaCMG is a leading European
player in IT services with a strong international
network. Through Unilog, we now employ
more people in France than in any other
territory and our German operations have
doubled in size. We have excellent
opportunities to cross-sell capabilities across
the enlarged business. The increasing size
and international nature of our operations
means that we can offer our employees an
even wider range of exciting career
opportunities. We also have the scale and
international reach to win the big deals large
multinationals are bringing to the market. 
Focus on integration
Our experience gained from integrating Logica
and CMG has been applied to both the
integration of Edinfor - now substantially
complete - and Unilog. The basic principles
behind our integration approach at Unilog is to
take the best from both companies and to
create, as soon as is practical, one company
with a shared culture and single set systems.
This work is currently in progress across all
the territories affected by the transaction. 
I would particularly like to welcome a number
of Unilog’s top executives to LogicaCMG’s
executive committee. Didier Herrmann has
joined the executive committee (and also the
main LogicaCMG board) as executive vice-
president with responsibility for France,
Germany and Switzerland. Aydin Azernour is
chief executive of IT Services in Paris while
Patrick Guimbal is chief executive of Unilog
Management in France, Germany and
Switzerland and is head of our worldwide
consulting board. 
“Releasing your potential”
Through the merger of Logica and CMG at the
end of 2002 and the addition of Unilog and
Edinfor, we have not only significantly grown
our international scale but we have also
broadened and strengthened our range of
services and solutions. Against a background
of fluctuating markets, we have delivered a
consistent strategy focused on meeting our
longer term objectives. 
Given our increasing scale, we undertook a
review of our market positioning in the second
half of last year. This review confirmed what
we already knew about the strengths of
LogicaCMG. Our differentiation lies in our
deep industry and technical expertise, our
strong delivery skills and the long-term nature
of our relationships. We employ hard-working,
committed people with excellent domain
knowledge.
As an enlarged and stronger business, we
want our brand identity to better reflect our
position in the market and our ability to enable
change for our customers. This is
encapsulated in our new strapline - “Releasing
your potential” - which we will roll out both
internally and externally in 2006. 
Looking ahead
The outlook for LogicaCMG in 2006 is
promising. We will continue to improve the
underlying operational performance of all our
businesses. A major priority for 2006 is to
successfully integrate LogicaCMG and Unilog.
Good progress has already been made.
Outsourcing remains an important growth
area for us and we will continue to leverage
our global service delivery capabilities across
the business to give us competitive edge. The
addition of Unilog’s leading consulting
business, Unilog Management, enhances 
our worldwide consulting profile and we
intend to further strengthen this capability in
the year ahead. 
Following the acquisition of Unilog and Edinfor,
LogicaCMG is in a stronger position to
compete for, and win, larger contracts. We are
well placed as the IT services industry matures
and the trend towards consolidation intensifies. 
Martin Read
Group chief executive
