 P2 Chairman’s statement  LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005
Chairman’s statement
Improving market conditions, increased
scale and a broader geographic footprint
should enable the LogicaCMG group to
make further progress in 2006.
”
“ LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005  Chairman’s statement  P3
The gradual recovery in the market for IT
services continued through 2005. It was
characterised by sustained volume increases
accompanied by a growing demand for more
efficient delivery models. Following our
acquisitions of Edinfor and Unilog, we enter
2006 with greater scale and a much stronger
European platform. 
In the first half of 2005, financial markets
remained cautious about the depth and
sustainability of the market recovery. LogicaCMG
was also one of the first companies in its sector
to begin the transition to International Financial
Reporting Standards and it took some time for
market commentators to become familiar with
the new form of presentation, including restated
comparatives and a heavier second half profits
weighting. Consequently, share price progression
was held back until the interim results and the
subsequent announcement of the Unilog
transaction. The shares ended the year up some
5 per cent and on a rising trend. Since late
2005, there has been a marked improvement in
the sentiment towards technology stocks, and
particularly software and services companies,
which has been reflected in significantly higher
volumes of shares being traded.
It is encouraging to note that the dilutive effect of
the rights issue to fund the Unilog acquisition
was reversed within a month, underlining the
positive response we have had to this important
strategic move.
The full year results overall were in line with our
guidance throughout the year and delivered
adjusted earnings per share* of 7.6 pence
(2004: 6.4 pence). The board has declared a
final dividend of 3.2 pence which, when added
to the interim dividend of 2.1 pence, gives a
full year dividend increase of 4 per cent once
the bonus element of the rights issue is taken
into consideration.
Governance and the board
The structure of the board has changed to
reflect the significance of the Unilog acquisition
and its importance to the future performance of
the group. Gérard Philippot, the former Executive
President of Unilog, has joined the LogicaCMG
board as a non-executive director. Didier
Herrmann, formerly Executive Vice President of
Unilog, has also joined the LogicaCMG board in
an executive capacity, responsible for our
businesses in France, Germany and Switzerland.
During the year, we spent considerable time
consulting with shareholders on the best ways to
incentivise our directors and senior management
going forward. Details of the results are provided
elsewhere in this document and in the letter from
me that accompanies the notice of our Annual
General Meeting. My letter and the notice set out
our proposals to introduce new share plans
subject to approval by the members at that
meeting. Our objectives have been to balance
the needs of our business with current best
practice in corporate governance, whilst
ensuring that our executive team is retained and
suitably incentivised.
Outlook
We expect market trends for IT services in 2006
to be similar to 2005. Increasing demand and
more appetite for value, efficiency and risk
mitigation in our major markets will generate
further organic revenue growth. The telecoms
products business will continue to balance some
decline in the more mature technologies with
growth in emerging technologies and markets. 
The combination of improving market conditions,
increased scale and a broader geographic
footprint should enable the LogicaCMG group to
make further progress in 2006, in line with
current market expectations.
Cor Stutterheim
Chairman
* Adjusted earnings per share is defined on page 57.
