 35
Governance
Another important feature this year has been 
our determination to reﬁ nance our outstanding 
borrowings as promptly as possible, given 
the restricted availability of funds as a result 
of the credit crunch. Following our successful 
reﬁ nancing of €500 million of debt in 
November 2008, we had a dialogue with our 
largest shareholders directly in December and 
were very pleased by their positive and rapid 
response, which led to our raising £90 million 
of new equity.
At the same time, in order to underpin our 
balance sheet, we proposed a rebasing of 
the dividend to a lower level of around 3.0p 
per share for both 2008 and 2009 (compared 
to 5.8p in 2007). This will conserve around 
£56 million in cash over the course of 2009. 
We expect to return the Company to a 
progressive dividend policy thereafter. 
The AGM in April will mark the retirement 
from the Board of Non-Executive Directors 
Wim Dik and Gérard Philippot. I would like to 
thank them very much for their wise counsel 
over their many years in the Company and 
particularly for their assistance in the last 
18 months in building one united Logica. 
I am delighted that Sergio Giacoletto and 
Frédéric Rose have agreed to join the Logica 
Board to replace Wim and Gérard. These new 
Directors, whose biographies are on page 37, 
deepen our focus on our European 
geographies, customers and partners. 
They will also bring signiﬁ cant strategic and 
commercial experience to the Board based 
on many years in senior executive positions 
in innovative services businesses.
Developments in early 2009 have 
demonstrated the importance shareholders 
place on strong governance and on 
companies that continue to look ahead and 
respond to a changing environment. These 
remain our guiding principles at Logica for 
2009 and beyond.
David Tyler
Chairman
Dear Shareholder, 
2008 was a year marked with 
change, both at Logica and in 
the external environment we 
faced as a company. 
At Logica, Andy Green became CEO 
in January 2008, and has made some 
major changes to the business. He has 
introduced a new strategy for the Group, 
reinvigorated the top management team, 
enhanced the morale of our employees 
and given our customers reasons for 
additional conﬁ dence in Logica. In addition, 
ﬁ nancial performance has improved – with 
revenue growth    up 5%*, and adjusted 
operating margin    up from 6.9%* in 2007 
to 7.5% in 2008. 
 I would like to thank all our employees for 
their contribution to our progress this year.
In the face of the economic downturn, 
the IT services market is becoming tougher. 
However, we see evidence that European 
companies and governments will continue 
to need the IT skills we bring to them. 
We aim to make Logica a stronger European 
company which creates innovative and 
practical solutions tailored to the needs 
of our customers and responsive to the 
environment they face. We believe we are 
capable of competing effectively against 
any of our global peers.
We want to create a partnership style 
culture among the senior management group 
at Logica. This is designed to ensure that this 
critical group of people take full responsibility 
for running the business on behalf of shareholders 
and to align their rewards accordingly. The 
introduction of the concept of ‘Logica Partners’ 
affects both the way careers are managed 
and the way Partners are paid through a 
Partners’ Incentive Plan and a Performance 
Multiplier Plan. Out of our 40,000 employees, 
we have now chosen some 200 to be Partners 
(including 25 Managing and Executive 
Partners). They are all eligible to participate 
in the Partners’ Incentive Plan, which was 
established with effect from January 2008. 
An integral part of the Partners’ Incentive Plan 
is the Performance Multiplier Plan which will 
provide additional awards to Managing and 
Executive Partners for the achievement of 
ambitious EPS targets. We will be seeking 
formal approval for the Performance Multiplier 
Plan at the AGM in April.
Chairman’s statement
David Tyler
Chairman, Logica
Dividend
 3.0p
(2007: 5.8p)
*  on a pro forma basis. See page 23 for deﬁ nitions.
