 3
This is Logica
Dear Shareholder, 
This report covers my ﬁ rst 
year as Chief Executive 
Ofﬁ cer of Logica. It has been 
a great privilege to lead the 
dedicated and talented team 
of people at Logica.
In April 2008, we launched a three year plan, 
building on Logica’s distinctive strengths. 
We did well against our plan in 2008. We 
achieved the ﬁ nancial targets we set out to 
shareholders while strengthening our 
management capability, implementing our 
strategy, and transforming the business 
around our key European customers. We also 
put the business on a ﬁ rmer operational and 
ﬁ nancial footing, with the support of our 
shareholders. 
 During 2008 I have prioritised spending 
time with customers and launching a major 
communications programme to ensure Logica 
people everywhere understand our strategy 
and plan. As a result, customers are noticing 
a more ambitious Logica that is working well 
together across the world and is responding 
to their changing needs. We will build on this 
during 2009 to create a preference for 
working with Logica. 
 You can read more detail about Logica’s 
strengths, the plan we set out and our 
achievements in 2008 in the following pages. 
Market overview
In 2009 we will keep focused on delivering 
against our plan and making progress against 
our long term goals, while coping with a more 
difﬁ cult economic environment. European 
GDP forecasts now suggest that the IT 
services market will decline modestly in 2009, 
with more weakness expected in markets with 
a larger ﬁ nancial services and general 
industrial exposure. Public Sector, Energy and 
Utilities, and Telecoms (which collectively 
accounted for 53% of Group revenue in 2008) 
remain robust. Our broad spread across 
sectors, as well as geographies, underpins 
our conﬁ dence in our ability to perform better 
than the market in 2009.
Appetite for using blended delivery has 
increased. While there is increasing pricing 
pressure, we have been able to respond by 
offering blended delivery and agreeing more 
efﬁ cient ways of working with our clients. 
CEO’s review
Andy Green
CEO, Logica
 
Watch a video update on the 
progress of our Programme 
for Growth at:
programmeforgrowth.
logica.com
We are proud to work with a very broad range 
of customers across Europe. In 2008, our top 
50 customers accounted for 32% of revenue. 
As our customers reduce their number of 
suppliers, we have an opportunity to meet a 
broader range of their needs. 
Outlook for 2009
We had a strong fourth quarter order intake 
and have a good pipeline of large 
opportunities, particularly in outsourcing. This 
is driven by the investments we have made in 
sales and outsourcing. Offsetting this is a 
reduction in shorter term consulting projects. 
As a result, we expect revenue for the ﬁ rst half 
of 2009 to be in line with 2008 on a constant 
currency basis.
We are continuing to prioritise stringent 
cost management across the business and 
have already taken decisive action in early 
2009. Following lower attrition in the last 
quarter of 2008, we signiﬁ cantly slowed 
recruitment and continue to impose a 
disciplined approach to the use of 
subcontractors. Our 2009 cost savings have 
been progressively accelerated from our 
original target of £50 million in April to the £75 
million we are now projecting. We will take 
additional action in individual business units 
should demand conditions weaken further.
We are conﬁ dent that these actions should 
allow us to protect full year margins, and, 
dependent on market conditions in the 
second half of 2009, deliver our planned 
improvement of around 0.5% in adjusted 
operating margin.
Looking further ahead, our close long term 
relationships with major European customers, 
deep industry knowledge, and our innovative 
and ﬂ exible culture will provide a robust 
platform for future growth and drive long-
term, sustainable shareholder value. We aim 
to make Logica a trusted innovation partner 
for customers, a great company to work for, 
and a great company in which to invest.
We know that we rely on the goodwill of 
our customers, people and shareholders and 
I would like to thank them all for their support 
in 2008.
 
Andy Green
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer
