 05 Lombard Risk Management plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Chief Executive Officer’s statement John Wisbey
Summary
The Company has made great progress in the 
year and is now well positioned, profitable and 
cash generative. Moreover we believe that there 
are good opportunities to advance the business 
performance even further in the coming year which 
we enter with a strong sales pipeline, leading-edge 
products, a strengthened management team, an 
appropriately structured cost base and a strong 
balance sheet.
Revenues grew at 32%, all of it organic growth, 
profitability was achieved and we ended the year 
with cash of £1.8m and no borrowings, an advance 
of £1.1m on the previous year’s cash position. All 
these numbers were ahead of market expectations. 
The board is recommending a maiden dividend 
of 0.03p per share.
The highlights of the year were the success of 
the UK Liquidity Regulatory programme, prompted 
by changes in the FSA’s new reporting requirements 
for liquidity risk which resulted in over 30 contract 
wins, and the go live of a major Tier 1 German bank 
for our collateral management product COLLINE
®
. 
This contract had been announced in April 2009 and 
went live in April 2010. We have now proven the 
scalability and resilience of the COLLINE® product 
in a leading Tier 1 bank in a global environment 
and will roll this technology out to other products 
requiring similar scalability and resilience. 
Much progress was made on moving our 
technology’s look and feel to a new platform 
and in building components that can work across 
our various products. Client reaction to the look 
and feel of the new platform has been extremely 
positive. Functionally, our products continued 
to make great progress.
We changed our NOMAD to Allenby Capital in 
mid-April 2010 and shortly afterwards announced 
several board changes, including the appointment 
of a new Non-executive Chairman. It is particularly 
pleasing that the growth achieved in the year 
was able to occur during a period of considerable 
change. Towards the end of the financial year 
we strengthened the management team further 
with a number of senior appointments.
The Board considers that the Company’s 
products are well placed with an emphasis 
on risk management, regulatory compliance 
and on related management reporting. 
The valuations of our peer group on the AIM 
market, as well as the premium trade sale prices 
achieved by companies in a very comparable 
space of operation like FRSGlobal or related 
spaces like Complinet or Sophis, are at revenue 
multiples very much higher than the Company’s 
current market valuation on AIM. We are 
continually being told that our specialities of 
risk management and regulation are regarded 
Summary
•   32% organic revenue growth
•   Operating in one of the hottest sectors 
in the market for valuation
•   Worldwide growth of regulation looks set 
to continue with new opportunities for the 
Company outside Europe
•   Regulatory driven movement of derivatives 
to clearing houses is a major opportunity
•   New technology platform is very 
significant driver
•   Strengthened depth of management team
•   Recommendation of a maiden dividend 06 Lombard Risk Management plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
“ We enter the current financial year with 
a strong sales pipeline, leading-edge 
products, a strengthened management 
team, an appropriately structured cost 
base and a strong balance sheet.”
Summary continued
as the “hottest” areas of financial technology. 
The current AIM valuation effectively reduces 
our ability to make value-enhancing acquisitions. 
We hope that the results being achieved will 
result in a market re-rating in due course for 
the benefit of all shareholders.
Financial
Revenues for the year increased by 32% to £11.8m 
(2010: £8.9m). Profit before taxation was £0.6m 
(2010: loss of £1.6m) and profit after taxation was 
£1.3m (2010: loss of £1.6m). EBITDA was £0.7m 
and normalised profit (stripping out one off staff 
reduction costs and the London office move) 
was £0.9m. Net cash was £1.8m, a considerable 
improvement from the previous year’s £0.7m. 
There were no borrowings.
The profit before tax was achieved without any 
capitalisation of software development. We have 
been happy to expense software development 
costs but under our accounting policy, which is 
in accordance with IFRS, we now satisfy all of the 
capitalisation qualifying conditions for many of 
our products, which consequently will result in 
the creation of an intangible asset. We have taken 
soundings from some leading industry analysts 
on what other companies in the sector report as 
R&D for capitalisation purposes and it is evident 
that there is a wide difference between companies, 
which is relatively opaque in company accounts. 
We will continue to be at the conservative end. 
In the last year our total expenditure on software 
development was £2.7m, being 23% of revenue. 
We would welcome greater consistency of 
presentation between companies in this area 
to make it easier for investors to compare like 
with like.
The strong growth in profit after taxation is partly 
because of the inclusion of a £0.7m deferred tax 
asset arising from the likely realisation of some 
of our tax losses. It should be stressed that this 
does not recognise the total after tax benefit of 
our tax losses which still totalled £4.8m at the 
end of March 2011.
Risk management and trading products 
As well as the positive impact from the aftermath 
of the credit crisis, there has been additional 
regulatory impetus that helps our business. 
In the United States the impact of the Dodd-Frank 
legislation, and how derivatives are transacted 
with central counterparties and cleared more 
on exchanges has given an opportunity to 
develop our Clearing offerings with the launch 
of COLLINE
®
 CCP Clearing. The product suite 
we are now able to market to clients for COLLINE
®
 
is a far wider one than three years ago with 
substantially all the main requirements of a 
collateral business met including OTC derivative 
margin management, repo and securities lending, 
central clearing, trade reconciliation, inventory 
management and margin messaging plus related 
workflow, straight through processing and reporting. 
This broader coverage has a positive impact on 
the price per customer that we are able to achieve.
Net assets
Net cash
£2.6m
£1.8m 07 Lombard Risk Management plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Revenue by geographical area
 UK
 The Americas
  Rest of Europe,  
Middle East and Africa
 Asia Pacific
Total revenue
£11.8m
Operating cash generated
£1.2m
Revenue growth since 2010
32%
In April 2010 COLLINE
®
 went live globally at the 
major Tier 1 German bank which was announced 
in April 2009 and by the end of the financial year 
we had completed a new installation for another 
prestigious German bank. We won other deals 
for COLLINE
®
 among banks and asset managers. 
The sales pipeline is very promising.
COLLINE
®
’s scalability, resilience and performance 
has been proven in the Tier 1 German bank 
environment using active-active clustering in multiple 
data centres, user locations in three continents 
and well over 200 users. This means we now have 
every confidence that our solution is scalable from 
the smallest collateral user to the largest global bank. 
Similar technology is being deployed for our other 
products where performance is a key issue.
OBERON
®
, our most established product, which 
has the ability to value and risk manage many 
different types of financial instrument, is profitable 
and continues to move forward with functional 
and performance enhancements. 
During the year we launched our LISA
®
 product 
and we have now signed up several customers 
for it in conjunction with our regulatory success 
for liquidity. LISA
®
, will evolve into a risk product 
which is very complementary to our regulatory 
products, starting with Liquidity Risk, and using 
the most modern technology. Lombard Risk has 
always been strong on risk management and 
the convergence of risk and regulation plays 
to our strengths.
Regulatory and compliance software products
Lombard Risk is the market leader for UK Bank 
Regulatory Reporting with approximately 130 
of the 350 banks in the UK and approximately 
15 investment firms in the UK using the 
STB-Reporter product for regulatory reporting 
to the FSA. 
During the year the major market development was 
the implementation of the FSA’s new regulations on 
Liquidity which allowed us to earn significant initial 
and annual licence fees as well as implementation 
revenue. In all, over thirty clients were won for 
Liquidity reporting, more than twice as many 
as a key competitor highlighting our growing 
market share. 
Regulatory change is always one of the main 
revenue drivers for a regulatory business. 
This financial year does not see quite the same 
opportunity in the UK as last year’s Liquidity 
Regulatory Programme but we believe that the 
opportunities from unified European COREP 
reporting at the end of 2012 (the first reports which 
will be identical rather than similar for all EU 
countries) will provide useful revenue opportunities 
this year in both the UK and other European 
countries as well as preparation for Basel III 
and Solvency II in 2012/2013. The appreciable 
regulatory change in other countries, notably 
in various Asian countries including India, is an 
opportunity that we will exploit.
£6.5m
£2.5m
£1.0m
£1.9m 08 Lombard Risk Management plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Regulatory and compliance software products 
continued
The Group’s ability to offer global or regional 
regulatory solutions has been greatly enhanced 
by having regulatory offerings available or under 
production for several EMEA and Asian countries 
as well as the United States. This process continues 
with product under development for Indian, Chinese 
and Korean regulatory reporting. Our Asian offices 
have made a number of worthwhile product wins, 
including business in Singapore won away from 
our main competitor, and we went live with our 
first customer for Japanese reporting. 
We are making some important technology and 
product enhancements to our regulatory products, 
including an exciting Web 2 front end, more 
performance and resilience at the back end, 
and other features designed to make the product 
more attractive to global Tier 1 banks as well 
as to our existing client base. Our existing ETL 
(Extract, Transform and Load) tool is long tried 
and tested in the regulatory environment and 
provides a secure foundation for development. 
Technology
We see our technology as an increasingly positive 
part of our commercial story and a key driver for 
growth. Our IP is a major corporate asset. 
Much progress has been made on moving our 
technology’s look and feel to a new platform 
and in building components that can work across 
our various products. Several of the liquidity 
contract wins included licensing of parts of this 
new technology. Client reaction to the look and 
feel of the new platform has been extremely 
positive. Functionally, our products continued 
to make great progress with new technology 
launched for repos, collateral management 
for centrally cleared derivative transactions 
and flexible management reporting. 
As mentioned earlier, COLLINE
®
’s scalability, resilience 
and performance has now been proven to work 
very effectively in a Tier 1 bank environment 
using active-active clustering in multiple data 
centres, user locations in three continents and 
well over 200 users. Similar technology is being 
deployed for our other products where 
performance is a key issue.
Our Shanghai development centre now has almost 
100 people in it and our model is to do much of 
the business analysis in London and New York 
and other financial centres but the majority of 
development in China. 
We have spent money on appreciably upgrading 
our equipment and the software tools that 
we use ourselves in order to achieve efficiency 
gains for our staff and we have made further 
progress on automating large parts of our 
software testing routines.
Personnel and premises
During the financial year we continued to make 
new hires appropriate to the expected growth 
of the business but we also benefited from cost 
actions taken in the preceding financial year. 
We continue to build on last year’s profitability 
in all parts of the business and to re-allocate 
Q1. 
Regulatory contracts won in the UK 
from new clients and existing ones 
extending the scope to include 
the new liquidity standards.
Appointed new Directors 
to the Board.
Q2. 
Relocated London head office 
to Blackfriars.
BNP ParibasSecurities go live with 
COLLINE
® 
for collateral management.
Q3. 
New contract won with SEI, a global 
operational outsourcing firm, who 
will be using COLLINE
®
 to assist 
delivery of its new collateral 
management service.
Profitability announced for first 
half year.
A year of continued growth
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
For more information for investors, visit 
www.lombardrisk.com 09 Lombard Risk Management plc Annual report and accounts 2011
“ Lombard Risk has always been strong 
on risk management and the convergence 
of risk and regulation plays to our strengths.”
resources to those parts of the business where 
we see the best prospects. Costs should continue 
to be contained and to reduce as a percentage 
of revenue as we achieve greater efficiency gains. 
We now have more than half of our Group 
headcount in Shanghai.
The Board changes at the beginning of the 
financial year, including the appointment of 
Philip Crawford as Non-executive Chairman, 
were covered in the interim announcement. 
Towards the end of the financial year we made 
three senior hires. Paul Tuson, who had been 
interim CFO since September 2010, joined our 
board as CFO. Philip Stanning joined as Group 
Sales Director, and Rebecca Bond as Group 
Marketing Director. Together with the existing 
strong team, these new hires should greatly help 
our plans to scale up the business further over 
the next few years.
In July 2010 we moved to high quality premises 
at Ludgate House, 245 Blackfriars Road in London. 
We have also recently moved to larger and higher 
quality premises in New York.
Prospects
With the 32% organic revenue growth achieved in 
the last year, the Company has attained a profitable 
position based on a leading product portfolio in 
a market with an ever-greater need to buy regulatory 
or risk management products. As a result of our 
disciplined product development strategy and 
a clear focus on the needs of our customers, 
our business continues to develop strongly. 
Looking ahead, we will continue to expand our 
core businesses – Regulatory Compliance and 
Risk Management in the financial services market – 
by improved product functionality, smarter 
technology solutions and increased geographic 
reach. The aim of this strategy is to deliver 
significant and sustainable turnover and earnings 
growth over the next five years. It is anticipated 
that this will lead to a positive return to the 
Company’s investors via both dividend income 
and capital growth. 
The continued hard work and contribution made 
by all my colleagues has been a major contributory 
factor to the Company’s positive results. I would 
like to thank them for their hard work and 
commitment, as well as our advisors Allenby 
Capital, Grant Thornton, Memery Crystal and 
others, for their assistance, and our customers 
and investors for their continued support.
John Wisbey
Chief Executive Officer 
27 May 2011
Q4. 
COLLINE
®
 selected by second large 
German bank to automate OTC 
derivatives, repos and stock lending 
collateral management and risk 
mitigation by consolidating multiple 
asset classes.
Build 
•  Tier 1 client wins for COLLINE
®
•  Product proven to work with 
high volumes
Grow 
•  Develop and market new products
•  Meet the needs of the financial 
services industry
Maintain 
•  M a r k e t - l e a d i ng p o si t io n 
in regulatory compliance
•  Continue to ride the wave of FSA 
regulation and build on success 
of liquidity reporting
What’s next
