 04 Lombard Risk Management plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Chairman’s statement Philip Crawford
I have now completed my first year at 
Lombard Risk. It is with pleasure that 
I am able to state that the momentum 
reported in the interim results has been 
sustained throughout the financial year 
and I am extremely pleased to present 
an excellent set of results. Revenues have 
increased by more than 30% to £11.8m 
(2010: £8.9m) and the Company has 
enjoyed a £2.9m uplift in profits after tax, 
from a loss of £1.6m to a profit of £1.3m. 
This uplift constitutes a £2.2m uplift in 
profit before tax and additionally the 
recognition of a £0.7m deferred tax asset. 
Costs grew at a rate of one-quarter of 
revenues, emphasising the scalability 
of the Company’s operations.
A key driver for the pleasing financial performance 
is the ever-growing needs of banks and financial 
services companies to purchase regulatory 
compliance and collateral management technology 
solutions. This has coincided with Lombard Risk 
delivering enhanced product functionality and 
extended geographical coverage all combining 
to increase customer demand.
On reporting the interim results, I stated that 
my early impressions were of a company with 
considerable potential. This view has been 
cemented in the subsequent period. The Board 
is optimistic over the future outlook for the 
Company. The opportunities which are apparent 
with enhanced regulatory compliance across 
wider geographical areas, together with short 
to medium term opportunities arising more 
locally from Solvency II and Basel III, place 
the Regulatory Compliance business in an 
enviable position. Ever stricter risk management 
requirements over collateral are resulting in 
an escalation of interest in the Company’s 
collateral management product portfolio.
The Company has delivered well but there is 
much left to do to achieve our goals over the 
next few years. We will continue to work hard 
and wisely to take advantage of our excellent 
market position and the strong market drivers. 
We take nothing for granted!
Philip Crawford
Chairman 
27 May 2011
Summary
•   £2.9m uplift in profits after tax
•   Scalable operations
•   Enhanced product functionality
•   Extended geographical coverage
•   The Board is optimistic over the future 
outlook of the Company
