 www.lombardrisk.com Annual report and accounts 2013
Overview 01–13
07
“ The Group continues to benefit 
from a compelling combination 
of a growing market, a healthy 
mix of long-standing and new 
customers, record recurring 
and committed revenues, good 
forward visibility and a leading 
competitive position.”
Summary
The	year	was	a	record	both	for	revenue	and	profits,	with	
over 30% headline growth and like for like revenue growth 
of 18% after taking into account the impact of acquisitions. 
EBITDA	increased	from	£3.0m	last	year	to	£5.3m	in	the	
current	 year ,	 a	 77%	 rise.	 While	 this	 rise	 was	 expected	 it	 was	
nevertheless pleasing that, at the same time, we were able 
to 	 build 	 a 	 record 	 revenue 	 backlog 	 going 	 into 	 the 	 new 	 financial 	
year . 	 All 	 this 	 was 	 achieved 	 in 	 spite 	 of 	 the 	 European 	 regulatory	
deadlines 	 slipping 	 by 	 nine 	 months 	 or 	 more, 	 which 	 inevitably	
affected	our	revenue	for	the	year .	The	second	half	of	the	
year	was	especially	strong.	W e	have	now	grown	revenues	
by	a	compound	20%	per	annum	over	the	last	four	years.
The	Group	continues	to	benefit	from	a	compelling	
combination	of	a	growing	market,	a	healthy	mix	of	
long-standing and new customers, record recurring and 
committed 	 revenues, 	 good 	 forward 	 visibility 	 and 	 a 	 leading	
competitive	position.	As	a	result	we	remain	confident	
of	further	growth	in	the	new	financial	year	and	beyond.	
At	a	time	when	many	companies	in	the	software	sector	
are struggling, we believe that in the near future the 
market	will	recognise	that	we	not	only	have	a	strong	
positioning in the growing areas of regulation and risk 
but	that	we	are	executing	well	in	those	markets.	
W e	invested	appreciably	during	the	year ,	both	in	product	
development and in strengthening the sales team, including 
the	appointment	of	a	Head	of	Global	Alliances.	There	are	
significant	opportunities	in	our	markets,	particularly	at	
present, which demand further investment in product 
development and which the Board believes will contribute 
appreciably	to	future	revenues.	Indirect	sales	will	become	
an	increasingly	important	part	of	our	revenue	model	and	
again this should contribute to revenue growth.
W e 	 enter 	 the 	 new 	 financial 	 year 	 with 	 our 	 recurrent 	 revenues 	
at an all-time high, our highest ever level of contractual 
backlog, with a boost from the remaining COREP deals 
that	we	anticipate	would	have	closed	before	March	2013	
had	the	regulations	not	been	delayed.	
Financial
Revenue	for	the	year	increased	by	31%	to	£16.8m	
(2012:	£12.8m).	Profit	before	taxation	was	£3.9m	
(2012: 	 £2.5m) 	 and 	 profit 	 after 	 taxation 	 was 	 £3.7m 	
(2012: £2.5m). EBITDA was £5.3m (2012: £3.0m). 
W e 	 built 	 up 	 cash 	 during 	 the 	 year 	 to 	 £1.9m 	 at 	 the 	 same	
time 	 as 	 repaying 	 debt 	 and 	 ended 	 the 	 year 	 with 	 a 	 positive	
net cash position of £0.2m versus net debt in the previous 
year	of	£2.4m,	an	improvement	of	£2.6m.	
T o	put	these	numbers	into	full	context:
i)	 	 W e	only	owned	the	REG-Reporter
®
 business for three 
months	of	the	previous	financial	year .	The	pro	forma	
revenue	number	for	FY	2012	would	have	been	£14.2m	
rather	than	£12.8m	had	we	owned	it	for	the	full	year .	
That gives a like for like revenue growth number for 
the	Group	of	18%.
ii)	 	 W e	raised	equity	during	the	year	of	£1.5m	after	costs,	
so	that	we	were	cash	positive	by	£0.8m	from	our	
operations	post-investing	activities,	despite	heavy	
investment in our products and in our sales team.
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
John	W isbey
In summary
	 18%	organic	growth;	31%	total	rev enue	growth
	 EBITDA	increased	 to	£5.3m	from	p rior	year	of	£3.0m	
	 Many	COREP	and	FINREP	opportunities	exist
 ComplianceASSESSOR launched
	 Multiple	of	REFORM
®
	already	evide nt
 Well placed for future growth Annual report and accounts 2013 Lombard	Risk	Management	plc
08
Regulatory and Compliance software products
Lombard	Risk	is	the	market	leader	for	UK	bank	regulatory	
reporting software in the UK through its REPORTER product. 
Lombard 	 Risk 	 is 	 also 	 the 	 largest 	 supplier 	 by 	 far 	 of 	 regulatory	
reporting software to foreign banks in the US.
Regulatory 	 change 	 is 	 always 	 one 	 of 	 the 	 main 	 revenue 	 drivers	
for	a	regulatory	business.	2014	is	now	the	key	deadline	for	
common 	 reporting 	 (“COREP”) 	 and 	 common 	 financial 	 reporting 	
(“FINREP ”) 	 at 	 European 	 Union 	 level 	 to 	 the 	 European 	 Banking	
Authority	(“EBA ”).	Originally	COREP	had	been	expected	to	
come	into	force	by	the	end	of	March	2013.	W e	have	been	
successful in the UK in selling REPORTER COREP software 
to 	 33 	 clients 	 (with 	 many 	 more 	 to 	 go). 	 It 	 is 	 very 	 encouraging	
that so far eleven of these clients have been new names 
for us. Interesting statistics are that of these eleven, seven 
were won from competitors, two were start-ups and two 
had	previously	used	manual	systems.	
Revenues 	 for 	 Regulatory 	 Compliance 	 in 	 EMEA 	 were 	 inevitably	
affected	by	the	nine	month	delay	in	COREP	as	there	were	
further 	 delays 	 at 	 European 	 level 	 in 	 finalising 	 the 	 regulations. 	
Banks also saw no need to accelerate implementation projects 
when	it	was	increasingly	apparent	that	quite	a	lot	of	the	
work might need to be redone when the regulations were 
finalised.	Obviously	at	the	same	time	as	adversely	affecting	
revenues 	 for 	 the 	 year 	 ending 	 March 	 2013, 	 regulatory 	 delays	
have been helpful for our opening contractual backlog going 
into	the	year	ending	March	2014	and	for	our	sales	pipeline	
for 	 the 	 year 	 ending 	 March 	 2014. 	 In 	 addition 	 it 	 was 	 not 	 clear	
last	year	whether	FINREP	would	apply	in	the	UK.	It	now	
seems	most	likely	that	it	will	and	this	should	bring	an	
additional	stream	of	revenue	in	the	current	financial	year .
Financial	regulation	continues	much	as	before	at	UK	level	
despite European EBA initiatives and the recent split of the 
FSA	into	the	Prudential	Regulation	Authority	(“PRA ”)	and	
the	Financial	Conduct	Authority	(“FCA ”)	is	likely	to	give	a	
stable	UK	regulatory	environment	for	the	next	few	years.	
It	will	not	affect	the	appreciable	regulatory	change	to	be	
introduced	in	the	next	few	years,	and	we	expect	this	to	
keep	us	very	busy .	
Our 	 regulatory 	 reporting 	 acquisition 	 in 	 America 	 has 	 been 	 well	
integrated. All client contracts were novated and we lost 
no clients other than a foreign bank branch which closed 
down	in	the	US.	W e	now	have	over	75	regulatory	clients	
in	the	US,	many	of	them	Tier	1	foreign	banks.	In	Asia	work	
continued 	 satisfactorily 	 on 	 Chinese 	 regulatory 	 reporting 	 and	
in	finishing	a	number	of	regulatory	projects	in	Hong	K ong	
and	Singapore.	W e	expect	Asia	to	perform	strongly	in	the	
new	financial	year	thanks	to	investment	in	the	past	year .
W e	made	strong	headway	with	our	REFORM
®
 product 
in the area around transaction reporting and reporting 
to	trade	repositories	like	the	DT CC	to	comply	with	US	CF T C	
and	SEC	requirements	derived	from	the	Dodd-F rank	Act.	
A major development in global markets is the development 
of	trade	repositories	such	as	the	DT CC,	CME	and	REGIS.	
The	Dodd-F rank	Act	in	the	US,	and	the	EMIR	and	REMIT	
regulations in the EU, as well as similar developments in 
Hong	K ong,	Japan,	Singapore	and	other	countries,	compel	
Swap Dealers and other market participants to report derivative 
transactions to trade repositories in minutes in the US and 
at 	 least 	 daily 	 in 	 other 	 jurisdictions. 	 The 	 technology 	 in 	 REFORM
®
 
is	highly	reusable	for	message	transformation	generally	
and we have also used it for message transformation in 
the collateral space as described below.
We also launched our ComplianceASSESSOR™ product. 
This product puts good process around compliance with 
regulations and creates a clear view and audit trail of how 
an 	 institution 	 is 	 complying 	 with 	 individual 	 parts 	 of 	 its 	 regulatory	
environment.	At	a	time	when	there	is	increasing	focus	by	
UK regulators on conduct, and when some banks have 
faced	very	heavy	fines	for	not	complying	with	regulations	
(eg 	 making 	 payments 	 in 	 US$ 	 to 	 Iranian 	 entities), 	 this 	 product	
is in the right place at the right time. There should be good 
upside	from	this	product	in	the	next	year .
Other	EMEA	opportunities	for	our	traditional	regulatory	
business	over	the	next	few	years	after	COREP ,	FINREP	and	
EMIR 	 will 	 come 	 from 	 Basel 	 3 	 and 	 MIFID 	 2, 	 with 	 opportunities	
to	expand	our	client	base	for	Solvency	2.	The	need	to	
report transactions to trade repositories should generate 
additional business for us.
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
Total revenue
 £16.8m +31%
(2012: £12.8m)
Average revenue growth since 2010
24% p.a. www.lombardrisk.com Annual report and accounts 2013
Overview 01–13
09
As	well	as	our	new	REFORM
®
 and ComplianceASSESSOR™ 
products, we have made, and continue to make, some 
important	technology	and	product	enhancements	to	our	
regulatory	product	set.	This	will	be	a	focus	for	investment	
in	the	coming	year ,	designed	to	make	our	regulatory	
product set more attractive to global Tier 1 banks at 
regional	or	head	office	level	as	well	as	enhancing	the	
experience	and	providing	additional	modules	to	our	wider	
client	set.	Our	REPORTER	Analysis	Centre	was	launched	
during	the	year	and	has	already	generated	revenue.
Risk Management and Trading products 
W e 	 have 	 made 	 strong 	 progress 	 with 	 COLLINE
®
, our collateral, 
clearing	and	repo	platform.	W e	now	have	just	under	fifty	
direct	clients	for	COLLINE
®
	and	many	more	indirect	clients.	
During	the	year	we	signed	up	another	top	German	bank,	
adding	to	our	existing	German	bank	wins	and	Société	
Générale	in	the	previous	year .	Several	clients	were	gained	
for	our	COLLINE
®
 CCP clearing and repo modules. 
Almost	all	our	clients	are	affected	by	either	Dodd-F rank	or	
EMIR	regulatory	requirements.	This	has	been	helpful	to	us	
by	forcing	banks	and	other	large	market	participants	to	
review	systems	where	their	legacy	system	is	not	built	with	
these	regulatory	changes	in	scope.	Our	COLLINE
®
 clearing 
module has been built with this in mind and we have made 
many 	 other 	 changes 	 to 	 COLLINE
®
 to ensure that it is compliant 
with the new regulations.
Much 	 work 	 has 	 been 	 done 	 on 	 opening 	 up 	 COLLINE
®
 through 
APIs and allowing even greater automation through 
connectivity 	 to 	 other 	 infrastructure. 	 W e 	 used 	 a 	 combination	
of	our	COLLINE
®
	API	and	our	REFORM
®
 platform to create 
two	way	real-time	links	with	a	collateral	market	messaging	
system	called	Marginsphere	from	AcadiaSoft,	Inc.	This	is	
now	almost	in	full	production	at	a	Tier	1	German	bank.	
Greater	automation	and	straight	through	processing	is	
important	to	most	large	bank	clients;	we	anticipate	more	
initiatives in this regard.
OBERON
®
, our most established product, which has the 
ability	to	value	and	risk	manage	many	different	types	of	
financial	instrument,	is	profitable	and	continues	to	move	
forward with functional and performance enhancements. 
Technology
W e	continue	to	see	our	technology	as	an	increasingly	
positive	part	of	our	commercial	story	and	a	key	driver	for	
growth.	Our	IP	is	a	major	corporate	asset.	During	the	year	
we 	 have 	 invested 	 heavily 	 in 	 developing 	 software, 	 particularly	
to handle our clearing and repo/sec lending initiatives for 
COLLINE
®
	but	also	to	develop	our	new	REFORM
®
 product 
mentioned above and to prepare for our REPORTER 
COREP module. 
Our 	 model 	 is 	 to 	 do 	 much 	 of 	 the 	 business 	 analysis 	 in 	 London,	
New	Y ork	and	other	financial	centres	but	to	handle	the	
majority	of	development	and	testing	in	Shanghai,	China.	
Efficiency	and	good	process	is	very	important	to	us.	During	
the	year	our	Development	and	T esting	Centre	was	awarded	
the 	 CMMI-D 	 Level 	 3 	 award. 	 This 	 is 	 a 	 very 	 significant 	 external 	
validation of a well-managed operation with good processes.
Much	progress	has	continued	to	be	made	on	moving	our	
technology’s 	 look 	 and 	 feel 	 to 	 a 	 new 	 platform 	 and 	 in 	 building	
components that can work across our various products. 
Client reaction to the look and feel of the new platform 
has	been	extremely	positive.	F unctionally ,	our	products	
continued to make great progress.
COLLINE
®
’s	scalability ,	resilience	and	performance	is	proven	
at our largest client using active-active clustering in multiple 
data centres, user locations in three continents and over 
300	users.	This	means	we	now	have	every	confidence	that	
our solution is scalable from the smallest collateral user to 
the 	 largest 	 global 	 bank. 	 Similar 	 technology 	 is 	 being 	 deployed	
for	our	other	products	where	performance	is	a	key	issue.
W e	have	invested	in	greatly	upgrading	the	software	tools	
which we use ourselves to monitor software project costs, 
project	progress	and	individual	productivity	and	quality .
Personnel and premises
During the period we continued to make new hires appropriate 
to 	 the 	 expected 	 growth 	 of 	 the 	 business. 	 Headcount 	 increased	
to	273	at	31	March	2013	from	252	at	the	prior	year	end.	
About 	 150 	 of 	 our 	 Group 	 headcount 	 are 	 in 	 our 	 Development	
and Testing Centre in Shanghai.
Investment in product development
£4.3m +29%
(2012: £3.3m)
Net	assets
 £10.5m +95%
(2012: £5.4m) Annual report and accounts 2013 Lombard	Risk	Management	plc
10
“ COLLINE
®
’s scalability, resilience 
and performance is proven at our 
largest client using active-active 
clustering in multiple data centres, 
user locations in three continents 
and over 300 users.”
Prospects
W e 	 enter 	 the 	 new 	 financial 	 year 	 with 	 a 	 good 	 level 	 of 	 optimism. 	
Firstly , 	 our 	 recurrent 	 revenue 	 is 	 well 	 up 	 and 	 we 	 have 	 a 	 record	
contractual	backlog	to	start	the	year .	Secondly ,	our	product	
strategy	means	that	we	are	well	placed	to	benefit	from	the	
considerable	opportunity	in	the	regulatory	and	risk	areas	in	
which 	 we 	 operate. 	 Thirdly , 	 we 	 have 	 made 	 great 	 headway 	 with	
our partnership module and see the likelihood of more revenue 
through	third	parties	than	in	the	past.	Finally ,	COREP	is	a	
greater	opportunity	for	this	year	than	we	expected	as	a	
result	of	the	regulatory	delays.
W e	clearly	continue	to	operate	in	an	environment	where	
there	is	little	discretionary	spending	and	where	many	major	
banks	and	the	countries	in	which	they	operate	are	far	from	
financial 	 health. 	 There 	 also 	 remains 	 the 	 risk 	 of 	 high 	 government 	
debt	levels	leading	to	inflationary	pressures	for	many	G20	
countries including the main ones in which we operate. 
While	no	company	can	be	immune	to	the	overall	
macroeconomic situation, we do believe that Lombard 
Risk	is	very	well	placed	in	its	target	markets.
W e 	 anticipate 	 a 	 year 	 of 	 further 	 encouraging 	 growth. 	 I 	 would	
like 	 to 	 thank 	 all 	 my 	 colleagues 	 as 	 well 	 as 	 our 	 advisers 	 for 	 their	
hard work and commitment and our customers and investors 
for their continued support.
John Wisbey
Chief Executive
13 May 2013
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
