 Annual report and accounts 2013 Lombard	Risk	Management	plc
06
I am pleased to report a progressive year at Lombard 
Risk. The financial performance has met our growth 
expectations. Sales of COREP , our solution for European 
Banking Authority Common Reporting, and of our 
transactional reporting platform, REFORM
®
, have been 
at the forefront of this growth. As well as recording 
top line growth in excess of 30% (18% organic), 
we finished the year with a record revenue backlog 
and appreciable visibility of future revenues as 
a result of an improvement in the longevity 
of contractual commitments.
Last	year	I	highlighted	the	Group’s	strategy	of	building	
a	high-quality	business	based	upon	intellectual	property .	
This	strategy	of	continual	innovation	and	product	
development 	 within 	 both 	 new 	 regulatory 	 reporting 	 solutions	
and repeatable platforms ensures that we remain at the 
forefront	of	providing	regulatory	reporting	and	risk	
management in our chosen global markets. 
Our progress has been achieved against the continuing 
backdrop	of	a	global	economic	environment	dominated	by	
key	economies	unable	to	drag	themselves	out	of	recession,	
worldwide	inflationary	pressures	and	the	instability	of	the	
Euro.	On	a	micro	level,	financial	institutions	are	seeking	
to	retain	cash	and	either	cancelling	or	postponing	many	
technology	initiatives.	In	addition,	regulatory	reporting	
deadlines	are	regularly	being	delayed	causing	delivery	
difficulties	for	both	our	customers	and	the	Group.	These	
challenges also present opportunities, with the increasing 
waves	of	regulation	in	financial	markets	showing	no	signs	
of abating. Our target customer base continues to have 
many	mandatory	technology	requirements,	for	which	
budget	remains	available.	Lombard	Risk’s	technology	
predominantly	satisfies	mandatory	needs.
The 	 trading 	 highlight 	 was 	 the 	 sale 	 of 	 our 	 REFORM
®
 platform 
to	a	major	global	bank	to	satisfy	its	DF A	(Dodd-F rank	Act)	
and	EMIR	(European	Market	Infrastructure	Regulation)	
transactional reporting requirements.
Operationally ,	I	am	delighted	that	the	Group	achieved	
CMMI-D	Level	3	accreditation	from	the	CMMI	Institute.	
This	is	in	recognition	of	its	high-quality	software	design,	
development and implementation processes. This, together 
with 	 the 	 ISO 	 9001 	 certification, 	 is 	 a 	 prestigious 	 achievement 	
for	our	technology	division.	W e	have	defined	CMMI-D	
Level	3	processes	which	increase	delivery	efficiency	and	
team effectiveness and are consistent and repeatable across 
all projects and products. This further enhances our reputation 
with 	 clients 	 and 	 partners 	 and 	 confirms 	 our 	 ability , 	 if 	 required, 	
to scale up development work on multiple projects.
The Board continues to review acquisition opportunities 
where	strong	synergies	exist	with	the	Group	and	where	
our	development	expertise	can	enhance	functionality	
and	profitability	to	the	products	acquired.
As	the	Group’s	results	have	indicated,	turnover	growth	
has proved to be more than resilient to economic 
challenges and we remain optimistic for the future.
Philip Crawford
Chairman
13 May 2013
Chairman’s statement
Philip Crawford
In summary
 Revenue £16.8m (2012: £12.8m)
	 Improvement	in	future	revenue	visibility
	 Global	regulatory	reporting	requirements	continue	to	expand
	 Major	contract	to	provide	transactional	reporting	using	REFORM
®
	 CMMI-D	Level	3	accreditation	achie ved
	 The	Board	remain s	optimistic	for	the	future	outlook	of	the	Group
CMII-D 3 Accreditation
In	January	2013	Lombard	
achieved accreditation from the 
CMMI	Institute	in	recognition	of	
its	high-quality	software	design,	
development and 
implementation processes.
CMII-D 3 Accreditation
In	January	2013	Lombard	
achieved accreditation from the 
CMMI	Institute	in	recognition	of	
its	high-quality	software	design,	
development and 
implementation processes.
