 Lombard Risk Management plc www.lombardrisk.com
05
Financial statements Overview Chairman’s statement Strategic report Governance
Chairman’s statement
In summary
 Revenue £20.4m (2013: £16.8m)
 Healthy order book and revenue visibility
  Major contract for COLLINE
®
 to supply 
a Tier 1 bank
  Regulatory requirements increasing in the 
management of collateral risk
 New senior sales resources recruited
  The Board remains optimistic for the 
future outlook of the Group
I am pleased to report another good year for Lombard Risk. 
The Group posted progressive financial results and further 
broadened and enhanced its product portfolio.
Results
In the year the Group achieved strong financial results in both 
its Regulatory Compliance and Risk Management divisions. 
This performance, following a number of years of strong 
growth, is testament to the continuing expansion of 
regulation in global financial markets.
In the year we saw our revenue increase by 22%, giving a 
four-year compound annual growth rate of 23%. Annually 
recurring revenues made up 42% (2013: 43%) of total revenues. 
The Company took the opportunity to raise £2.5m net of 
fees through a placing of new shares to ensure the Group 
maintained a healthy balance sheet. 
Importantly, the Company closed a further 34 new contracts 
to provide its Common Reporting (“COREP”) solution for the 
European Banking Authority during the twelve month period 
to 31 March 2014, giving a total of 67 COREP clients. Of these 
67, 27 are new clients. A further success was the contract to 
supply our COLLINE
®
 collateral management software to a 
Tier 1 bank.
We continued to invest strategically in technology and 
infrastructure to scale our business to ensure we are best 
positioned to maximise future revenue opportunities and 
sustain the Group’s growth.
Profits have been realised in line with our expectations; 
this was despite the sales success resulting in the need for 
additional resources to satisfy our clients’ product 
implementation needs.
Chairman’s statement
In the year we saw our revenue increase 
by 22%, giving a four-year compound 
annual growth rate of 23%.”
Philip Crawford
Chairman
_0_LOM_ar14_Front.indd   5 16/06/2014   10:44:18 Lombard Risk Management plc Annual report and accounts 2014
06
Chairman’s statement
Dividend
On the back of the progressive financial performance, the 
Board proposes a final dividend of 0.045p per share which, if 
approved, will be paid on 25 July 2014 to those shareholders 
on the register on 11 July 2014. This brings the dividend for 
the year to 0.075p per share (2013: 0.065p per share), an 
increase of 15%.
Strategy
The Group enjoyed a strong performance from its direct 
sales function in Europe. This year, the Board intends to 
replicate this growth in the Americas and Asia Pacific. In 
addition, the Board is focussing on expanding its partner 
network to increase its indirect sales performance.
The intellectual property of the Group remains a key asset. 
The Group is perceived as a market leader by many in its core 
markets. In the future, the Group intends to leverage this 
market position to drive sales. This objective will be supported 
by our recent recruitment of further experienced senior sales 
executives. Additional investment in technology development 
is being made to support the sales drive.
Employees
During the year, I have made a conscious effort to connect 
with many of the Group’s valued employees. The diverse 
nature of the employees, their market knowledge, enthusiasm, 
commitment and desire reassure me that the Group possesses 
a deep level of talent.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all the 
employees for their valued contribution. 
Board of Directors
Since the Annual General Meeting held in 2013 
we have appointed Steve Rogers and John McCormick 
as Non-executive Directors, effective August 2013 and 
November 2013 respectively. These appointments have 
added considerable relevant experience to the Group.
In February 2014, Paul Tuson, the Company’s CFO, resigned. 
He left in May 2014 after serving three months’ notice. On behalf 
of the Board, I would like to thank Paul for his valued contribution 
to the growth, governance and well-being of the Group 
during his three-and-a-half-year tenure. The Board is actively 
seeking a suitable replacement.
Outlook
The Board looks forward to the forthcoming year with 
continuing optimism. The unrelenting macro-regulatory 
environment in the financial industry persists. This, together 
with the addition of the sales drive and the healthy £5.2m 
order book of contracted licence and professional services, 
gives the Board comfort of further growth progression.
AGM
The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Company’s 
London office at 9.30am on Wednesday 9 July 2014. 
My fellow Directors and I look forward to meeting 
shareholders at that time.
Philip Crawford
Group Non-executive Chairman
12 May 2014
Chairman’s statement
continued
_0_LOM_ar14_Front.indd   6 16/06/2014   10:44:18
