 Lombard Risk Management plc www.lombardrisk.com
07
Governance Financial statements Strategic report Chairman’s statement Overview
Strategic report
In summary
  Revenue increased by 22% to £20.4m 
(2013: £16.8m), of which £13.1m was 
in the second half (2013: £9.0m)
 EBITDA increased to £6.0m (2013: £5.3m) 
  Profit before tax increased to £4.4m 
(2013: £3.9m)
  Record revenues both from Regulatory 
and Collateral businesses
  67 UK COREP contracts signed – 
27 from new clients – and major 
COLLINE
®
 deal signed
  Good foundations laid for Alliances 
Programme 
The year was another record year both for revenue and profits, 
with 22% revenue growth, all of it organic revenue growth 
(2013: 31% revenue growth, of which 18% was organic 
revenue growth). The second half of the year was especially 
strong, and revenues were 44% higher than our previous 
record half year with £13.1m of revenue (2013 H2: £9.1m). 
EBITDA, adjusted for share-based payments, increased from 
£5.3m last year to £5.9m in the current year and profit before tax 
increased from £3.9m to £4.4m. Both profit before tax and 
revenues were ahead of market expectations. In addition 
to this strong revenue achievement we were also able to 
build a record revenue backlog/order book going into the 
new financial year. The drive to gain longevity of contractual 
commitment started in FY13 has continued with equivalent 
success in the current year.
The Group continues to benefit from having a strong market 
position in two important and growing segments of the 
financial industry, namely regulation and collateral 
management. The European Banking Authority’s initiatives 
such as COREP, FINREP and Asset Encumbrance have kept us 
extremely busy, and revenue from this will continue in the 
current financial year. Additional growth can also be 
expected to come from the Compliance area, where we have 
a new product, and from our increased use of alliances with 
major global firms or leading regional firms. Our professional 
services team is extremely busy billing its time to meet the 
COREP deadlines of seventy clients, but the programme is on 
track. As a result of all the above we remain confident of 
further growth in the new financial year and beyond. 
We invested appreciably during the year, both in product 
development and delivery capability and in further 
strengthening the sales team, including the appointment of 
a Global Sales Director. We expect research and development 
costs to reduce in the 2014/15 financial year as a percentage of 
revenues but at the same time it would be very short sighted 
not to invest in our future growth. There continue to be 
significant opportunities in our markets, some with regulatory 
deadlines associated with them, which demand further 
investment in product development and which the Board 
believes will contribute appreciably to future revenues. 
Indirect sales are expected to become an increasingly 
important part of our revenue model and again this should 
contribute to revenue growth.
No company achieves 22% revenue growth in a year without 
considerable effort by many of its team. I would like particularly 
to thank all those involved in EMEA regulatory for their efforts 
in selling and delivering almost 70 COREP projects. With 
numerous changes in the regulations during the consultation 
and legislative period, our teams involved have sometimes 
had to go more than the extra mile and this continues to be 
the case with key regulatory deadlines in June 2014. They 
deserve special thanks, although thanks are also due to all 
who contributed during the year.
During the year we conducted a placing and were able to 
welcome some exciting new names to our shareholder 
register. We are particularly pleased that Fidelity has become 
our largest institutional shareholder.
We enter the new financial year with our recurrent revenues 
at another all-time high of around £8.6m, our highest ever 
level of order book at £5.2m, and with a good sales pipeline.
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
We have now achieved compound annual 
revenue growth in the last four years of 
almost 23% p.a. and it is pleasing to have 
beaten market expectations on both 
revenue and profitability.”
John Wisbey
Chief Executive Officer
_0_LOM_ar14_Front.indd   7 16/06/2014   10:44:19
