 02
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
London Mining achieved notable 
progress in 2009 from both a 
corporate perspective and on the 
ground at our key iron ore projects 
in Sierra Leone, Saudi Arabia, 
Greenland and China. Advances 
made over the past year leave the 
business well positioned to deliver 
on our stated strategy of becoming 
a mid-tier supplier to the global 
steel industry. 
Of particular note during the year was the successful conclusion 
of the AIM listing. The associated placing of 37 million existing 
shares in November resulted in the addition of over 30 new 
institutional shareholders to our register and a resulting free 
float of approximately 70% of the issued shares, reflecting 
positively on our assets, the executive team and our corporate 
strategy. 
The people, policies and procedures we continued to put in 
place during the year under review provide a strong base for 
London Mining to manage its growth. We aim to follow 
international best practice in our commitment to our employees, 
the communities we work with and the environment by 
developing and implementing a Corporate Environment Health 
Safety and Community (“EHSC”) policy. This is based on 
careful analysis and internationally recognised standards 
including the Equator Principles.
Chairman’s Statement
Very important progress has been made at Marampa, Sierra 
Leone. London Mining was issued with a new 25 year mining 
licence in August 2009 and in early 2010 was awarded all 
necessary approvals to commence construction. On 11 March 
2010, a national celebration attended by the President of Sierra 
Leone, his cabinet, parliamentarians and representatives of all 
149 Paramount Chiefs, marked the commencement of major 
development works in full. This ceremony demonstrated the 
ongoing support and commitment to both London Mining and 
the project by the Government and more broadly, the people of 
Sierra Leone as a whole. Substantial work has been carried out 
on the licence, with extensive studies performed to confirm the 
expected resource potential. Construction of the haul road to 
the proposed port loading facility is well advanced laying the 
groundwork for first production in 2011 and for eventual 
expansion to over 5Mtpa. 
Also of note during the year was the Group’s return to 
production following the acquisition, effective 23 April 2009, of 
a 50% share in an operating iron ore mine in the People’s 
Republic of China. Although currently a small operation, with 
capacity of 300,000 tonnes of iron ore concentrates, this 
investment provides the Group with accelerated growth 
opportunities through local regional consolidation. We expect 
to report more progress on this during 2010.
Our success has been based on the exceptional technical 
capability of our people. Investment in the right people is the 
cornerstone of our strategy. Fundamental to the development of 
our projects is the capacity of our COO, Luciano Ramos and his 
technical team. As the Group continues to expand, we have 
augmented the senior executives in our technical team since 
year end, with the addition of a deputy COO and I would like to 
use this opportunity to welcome Felix Kayat to the team.
The strengthening of our technical team enables us to enter the 
critical development stages at our four principal projects as well 
as enabling us to react quickly to other opportunities. The 
performance of Luciano’s team is directly reflected in our 
delivery of key milestones at all our projects: notably the 
establishment of JORC resources at our three projects which are 
operated by London Mining; a bankable feasibility study at 
Wadi Sawawin; and a prefeasibility study at Isua. 
Colin Knight
Chairman
