 03
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive’s Statement
Our credentials have been demonstrated by the USD 669 
million profit generated on our USD 40 million equity 
investment from the sale of London Mining Brasil to Arcelor 
Mittal in 2008. In this case, London Mining’s acquisition of an 
asset with the potential for rapid and scaleable development, 
combined with the application of technical development 
expertise and judicious use of capital led to the rapid 
transformation from a modest family run mine into a 4Mtpa 
operation with expansion potential to 12Mtpa. The sale of this 
operation allowed the Company to return substantial profits to 
shareholders in the form of a GBP 220 million special dividend 
and put the Company in a solid financial position at the 
beginning of 2009 to push forward development of our other 
high value projects. 
London Mining applies the approach employed in Brazil to all 
of our core assets and we are steadily progressing our goal to 
become a substantial mid-tier supplier of core bulk commodities 
to the steel industry. To do this we must and do have: strong 
projects, first class technical and operating teams and the 
funding to drive development of each project to production or 
key milestones.
Today, London Mining has four principal iron ore projects from 
which we aim, through staged development, to produce together 
over 25Mtpa of iron ore concentrates. Key features of our 
projects are:
Scaleable – large resource base allows expansion through 
organic growth at low capital cost.
Deliverable logistics – when absent in bulk commodities 
projects, or in the control of non-aligned third parties, poor 
logistics is too often the reason why good resources are left 
undeveloped. 
Potential for rapid development – near term production and 
cash flow from projects with existing resources, brownfield 
operations, or unoptimised operating mines. 
First class management is vital to the successful implementation 
of our projects. London Mining has established extremely 
capable and results driven technical and operating teams 
committed to achieving the Company’s production and 
development objectives. In 2009, we have built out this team 
substantially, attracting highly experienced professionals from 
Vale, BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto as well as from leading 
engineering companies. The expertise of our technical services 
team allows for synergies across the Group’s projects. Individual 
projects have dedicated personnel with relevant expertise 
allowing us to operate highly effectively in each location.
Over the last 12 months, we have advanced all of our projects 
despite the prevailing uncertainty in the financial markets. 
London Mining is now extremely well placed to benefit from the 
London Mining’s core expertise is in 
identifying, rapidly developing and 
operating mines for the global steel 
industry. We have a clear strategy 
and established methodology to 
deliver exceptional value. 04
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
CGMR Marampa Wadi Sawawin Isua
excellent fundamentals and resulting pricing expectations for 
iron ore through the development of its projects in Sierra Leone, 
Saudi Arabia, Greenland and China.
In Sierra Leone, construction has commenced to restart 
production at the previously producing Marampa mine. The 
Marampa project embodies our core principles perfectly: we are 
moving rapidly to production and cash flow from beneficiation 
of the tailings resource to produce high quality sinter feed. Once 
in cash flow, we plan to expand production volume from 
tailings, then expand again with production from the primary 
ore body. Our current target of 5–8Mtpa sustained production 
capacity from 2013 is being well supported by the results of our 
ongoing drilling programme. The multiplier effect of London 
Mining’s economic activity in Sierra Leone will be a significant 
driver of the country’s economic expansion. Nowhere have I 
seen such potential for our activities to improve so quickly and 
so profoundly the lives of so many. Restarting the Marampa 
mine after a dormancy of 35 years is truly a privilege and a 
vastly rewarding and important endeavour. 
The Wadi Sawawin project in Saudi Arabia will produce DR 
quality pellets in the midst of the growing Middle Eastern DRI 
steel production market with substantial location and cost 
advantages over Brazilian or Northern European supply. The 
Bankable Feasibility Study completed in December 2009 
confirmed the project’s technical and financial viability and we 
look forward to progressing funding discussions during 2010.
Greenland has also been moved on with the completion of a 
prefeasibily study in February 2010 confirming the technical 
viability and optimal concept. A premium quality concentrate, 
which is ideal for blending with lower quality ores by 
steelmakers or suitable for DRI steelmaking using the HYL 
process, can be produced at the rate of 10Mtpa from the large 
951Mt resource base at a low operating cost.
The China Global Mining Resources (“CGMR”) JV, was 
acquired as an opportunity to develop an under-optimised yet 
profitable iron ore mine with strong expansion potential in a 
region of steel production. CGMR provides London Mining 
with an opportunity to establish a China focussed mining 
company using international best practices to take advantage of 
and optimise domestic mining opportunities. 
China produces more steel than the five next largest countries 
combined and as such is the main global market for iron ore and 
coking coal. It is our belief that China, along with the emerging 
economies of India, the Middle East, Brazil and other fast 
growing Asian countries will provide growing demand for steel- 
making materials in the near, medium and long term. London 
Mining aims to supply over 25Mtpa of iron ore to these markets 
by the end of 2015. We will also continue to progress our early 
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
Staged iron ore production growth
Targeted capacity (Mtpa at year end) 05
London Mining Plc Annual Report 2009
stage investments in Colombia, South Africa and Chile as  
well as looking at other opportunities in iron ore and 
metallurgical coal. 
Developing strong relationships and working with Chinese 
consumers and importers of iron ore may also lead to co-
development opportunities where London Mining’s ability to 
rapidly develop mines to production combines naturally with 
such companies’ ability to supply capital and offtake 
arrangements. This has direct relevance for London Mining’s 
higher capital projects, Wadi Sawawin and Isua. 
Our projects’ value and viability is based on competitive 
advantages such as simple logistics (all projects), locations  
close to customers and key growing markets (Saudi, China), 
producing premium product from large long term resource at 
low operating cost (Greenland) or being rapidly and cost 
effectively scaled to significant production (Sierra Leone).  
This in turn allows us to build lasting relationships with our  
key customers.
With proven assets, a technical team with broad expertise and  
a strong balance sheet with USD 205 million cash at the end of 
2009, London Mining will continue to execute its objectives and 
in doing so continue to build strong value for our shareholders.
Graeme Hossie
Chief Executive
Near term milestones to deliver production targets
2009
✓ 25 year mining licence for Marampa (Q3)
✓ Updated JORC resource for Isua (Q4)
✓ JORC resource for Wadi Sawawin (Q4)
✓ BFS for Wadi Sawawin (Q4)
2010
✓ JORC resource for Marampa tailings (Q1)
✓ Final government approvals for Marampa (Q1)
✓ Isua PFS (Q1)
• Updated Marampa JORC tailings resource (Q1)
• JORC resource for Marampa primary (Q1)
• Updated BFS for Wadi Sawawin (Q2)
• Revised PFS for Isua (Q2)
• China resource (Q3)
• Marampa expansion PFS (H2)
• Wadi Sawawin financing (H2)
2011
• Marampa 1.5Mtpa start-up (Q1)
• First shipment of Marampa concentrate (Q2)
• Start of Wadi Sawawin construction (H1)
