 5
Chief Executive’s  
statement
Building on strong project fundamentals, 
London Mining has a clear strategy and 
proven capability to deliver exceptional  
near term and long term value growth.
2010 has been another year of strong achievement for London 
Mining in our goal to become a significant new producer of raw 
materials for the global steel industry. In the past year we have 
added over 1.0 billion tonnes to our iron ore resource base and 
advances at our projects in Sierra Leone, Greenland and Saudi 
Arabia mean that we are now targeting over 30Mt of iron ore 
production by 2015 from our current iron ore resource base  
of over 2.3 billion tonnes. We are now in construction on two 
projects with both coming into production this year. Additionally, 
we have transformed our Greenland iron ore project into an 
economically compelling 15Mtpa operation which will complete 
its bankable feasibility work during 2011.
As a result of our recent highly oversubscribed convertible bond 
issue, together with the revolving credit facility secured with 
Standard Chartered, London Mining is fully funded to bring 
Sierra Leone to 3.6Mtpa and Colombia to 200ktpa of coke 
production. High margins and the incremental growth potential 
of these projects allow organic expansion to be significantly or 
completely self-funded without the requirement for a strategic 
investor. The progress made and anticipated production growth 
to 30Mtpa has continued to validate London Mining’s strategy  
of focusing on projects with deliverable logistics which can be 
rapidly developed into production and expanded quickly to 
significant size. Our key projects have now demonstrated these 
fundamental value aspects and, with first production at 
Marampa expected in Q3 2011, less than 18 months after 
approvals were granted in Q1 2010, we are demonstrating  
our ability to deliver production from our projects in a rapid  
and cost effective manner. 
Development at Marampa continues apace and we are excited 
about the opportunities presented by near term substantial cash 
flow and the increasing scope of the planned operation. A year 
ago Marampa was being considered as a simple 1.5Mtpa 
tailings reprocessing operation with resource potential for  
a 5Mtpa mine. 
Graeme Hossie
Chief Executive Officer
Group target capacity
2016 2015
16
12.8
6.4
6.4
6.4
1.2 1.8
0.2
3.5 3.6
3.5
3.6
15
15
15
15
5
5
5 5
5
2018 2017 2014 2012 2013 2011
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
Marampa Phase 1
Marampa Phase 2
Isua
Wadi Sawawin
Targeted capacity (Mtpa at year end) CEO of London Mining, Graeme Hossie meets the 
President of Sierra Leone, Ernest Bai Koroma
6
Overview
Operational and financial review
Corporate governance
Financial statements
Chief Executive’s  
statement continued
The success of our Mineral Resource Development programme 
now means that we have JORC resources ten times the 
historical resource estimates and a deliverable plan to over 
16Mtpa production over a greatly extended mine life. One of the 
major advantages presented by Marampa relative to many other 
West African iron ore projects is London Mining’s ability to 
entirely self fund its development. This is a result of a number of 
factors including Marampa’s proximity to the coast and simple 
logistics solution and the presence of higher grade weathered 
material which greatly reduces the amount of processing 
required to produce a premium product suitable for sale in all 
markets. An offtake agreement with Glencore for an initial 
portion of production has endorsed our ore quality, our 
production plans and assists with working capital needs as we 
ramp up to 3.6Mtpa and beyond. 
We are also very encouraged by recent developments at Isua 
in Greenland, with a new scoping study now showing that the 
resource can support a 15Mtpa operation with greatly reduced 
capital intensity. 
Over the course of 2010 we also acquired 100% of a coke and 
coking coal business in Colombia. Coking coal complements 
our iron ore business very well and London Mining Colombia, 
(formerly International Coal Company, (“ICC”), is forecast to 
produce its first coke in Q3 2011 and contribute cash flows to 
our business from early 2012. Our current focus is to significantly 
develop our resources in Colombia over the course of the year: 
an agreement has been signed for a concession near our coke 
ovens and the Company is currently drilling this and other 
concessions with the expectation of developing coking coal 
mines both to supply our coke ovens and for direct export of 
coking coal. We expect to reach full coke capacity of 200ktpa  
in Q1 2012, followed by a second phase of construction 
increasing capacity to 400ktpa of coke which will produce 
cashflow to fund coking coal mine development activity.
Financing for the Wadi Sawawin project in Saudi Arabia is also 
advancing and we expect further developments over the course 
of 2011. The agreement signed in July 2010, giving us a 25% 
free carried interest in the project, greatly improves the internal 
rate of return (“IRR”) for London Mining and allows us to focus 
on delivering the technical aspects of the project.
Q4 2009 Q1 2010 Q2 2010 Q3 2010 Q4 2010
Total Average Grade (%)
JORC Resources (Mt)
0 22%
200 24%
400 26%
600 28%
800 30%
1000 32%
Tailings Primary Ore Average Grade
37
906
533 503
392
37 42 42
33 7
With regard to our markets, tight supply and high China 
domestic production marginal costs means that “higher for 
longer” pricing is now being expected for iron ore and for coking 
coal for the next decade and indeed record prices are currently 
being experienced. London Mining is in a very favourable 
position to benefit from this strong pricing both for its near term 
production and from its near term significant expansion as it 
targets 30Mtpa in 2015.
London Mining’s key iron ore projects all produce premium high 
quality low impurity iron ore products. In a market where in situ 
grade quality is falling for many worldwide producers, both 
major and China domestic, securing long term sources of 
quality iron ore supply is becoming more and more important for 
steelmakers. London Mining expects to enjoy premium pricing 
and strong demand for its planned production and expansion  
in all its projects. Combined with low opex and/or capex cost 
bases, this leads to superior margin and return on investment  
for years to come.
China, as the most important consumer of iron ore and other 
commodities, continues to be a key focus of London Mining’s 
approach to long term development of our assets. We continue 
to build meaningful links based on London Mining’s high quality 
assets and products as well as our reputation for technical 
excellence in mining development. This is driven by a long term 
commitment to building sustainable partnerships with Chinese 
interests. An example of this is the involvement of two leading 
Chinese state owned engineering and construction companies, 
Sinosteel and CCCC (“China Communications Construction 
Company”), being involved with the Isua Project in Greenland. 
This has allowed London Mining to optimise total capex and 
construction times making the Isua project stand out in terms  
of IRR, product quality and speed to significant production 
volumes in 2015. It is also opening additional potential financing 
avenues in China.
Whilst continuing to deliver strong shareholder value growth, 
London Mining at its core focuses on and is led by a philosophy 
of “win–win” for all stakeholders. These include our employees, 
the communities and countries in which we operate, the 
environment, our customers, contractors and partners. In Sierra 
Leone, we take very seriously the responsibility we have of 
being a significant provider economic development through both 
our direct activities and all the indirect benefits from our 
investment, training, infrastructure development, job creation, 
and re-development of an iron ore mining industry. We support 
transparency initiatives and see our pioneering commitment and 
successful operations in Sierra Leone as an example to attract 
further international capital for the country’s industrial and 
economic development. In Greenland, the Isua mine will bring 
substantial and much needed economic activity and revenue  
to the country. Again London Mining’s early and continued 
commitment to this important project for Greenland will build  
a secure economic future. 
Looking forward, in 2011 the company will be focused on 
delivering its production plans and other key milestones to 
enable us to achieve our growth objectives. We will also be 
working on bringing together the required financial resources 
and partners to fund Greenland and Sierra Leone large scale 
expansions in 2012. Building on strong project fundamentals, 
London Mining has a clear strategy and proven capability to 
deliver exceptional near term and long term value growth.
Barge arriving at Tawfayim river port, Sierra Leone
