 4
Overview
Operational and financial review
Corporate governance
Financial statements
 Chairman’s  
statement
2010 has been a year of substantial progress for London Mining 
globally. We are now well positioned to take advantage of the 
many new opportunities that have arisen from the Group’s 
technical and corporate advances. London Mining’s growing 
reputation as a pioneer in the development of iron ore resources 
in new territories is supported by its strong management team 
and its well funded balance sheet.
The Group is fully financed to first production at Marampa and for 
its coke project in Colombia. In 2010 a USD 60.0 million revolving 
credit facility was arranged with Standard Chartered and in 
January 2011 London Mining successfully completed a USD 
110.0 million convertible bond issue. The issue was over two 
times subscribed with significant contributions from existing 
shareholders. This financing was the first time that London Mining 
has accessed the capital markets since 2007 when it raised 
funds to fast track development of its mine in Brazil, and reflected 
the market’s positive view of our abilities and prospects. 
We will generate cash flow from our flagship Marampa project 
by the end of 2011, a key milestone in our goal of becoming a 
mid tier supplier to the global steel industry. London Mining is 
confident it can continue to deliver extraordinary returns for its 
shareholders through the sequential delivery of its milestones.
Of particular note during 2010 was the commencement of 
construction at London Mining’s Marampa mine following  
the ratification of its Mining Licence Agreement (“MLA”), by 
the Sierra Leone Parliament in February 2010. The drilling 
programme also provided exceptional results, increasing 
resources ten-fold leading to an equivalent increase in 
projected production volumes from the licence. 
First production from Marampa, expected in Q3 2011, will allow 
us to increase significantly our contribution to the Sierra Leone 
economy not only through the creation of jobs and support of 
local businesses, but also through payments of taxes and 
revenue royalties. It is anticipated that up to one percent of 
revenue will fund corporate responsibility initiatives both locally 
and nationally as directed by London Mining in conjunction with 
a board of locally appointed representatives from the community. 
London Mining has already made significant contributions in 
Sierra Leone on community projects that add tangible benefits 
and a lasting legacy to health, education and the environment. 
As a key investor in Sierra Leone, we are committed to ongoing 
support for legacy projects linked to the country’s celebration of 
its 50th Anniversary of independence throughout 2011.
London Mining announced in January 2011 that it had signed  
a five year offtake agreement for Marampa with Glencore 
International, covering 9.5 million tons of production from the 
first phase of the project over five years. The agreement 
underlines the appetite for the type of high quality ore 
Marampa will be producing. 
Whilst Marampa remains the focus for 2011, London Mining’s 
other projects are beginning to come to the fore and I expect 
all of them to gain prominence over the course of 2011 as 
London Mining looks to secure finance. 
We are continuing to develop our coking coal resources and 
constructing our coke production project in Colombia, with 
progress on track for first production by the end of 2011.
Isua in Greenland is now recognised as a 15Mtpa operation  
and in the case of both Isua and Wadi Sawawin in Saudi Arabia, 
London Mining believes that most value can be delivered for 
shareholders by bringing in a partner to fund further 
development of the projects. 
I would like to take this opportunity to welcome Luciano Ramos, 
Chief Operating Officer and Benjamin Lee, Head of Corporate 
Development to the Board. Both have played integral roles in the 
London Mining story and I expect them to contribute significantly 
to the future development of the Group. 
Colin Knight
Chairman
