 Overview
5
London Mining Plc
Annual Report 2011
Chairman’s statement
in which we operate are able to see tangible and long-lasting 
beneﬁts from our activities. We are particularly proud to provide 
employment and training for over 1,200 Sierra Leoneans. 2012 is 
signiﬁcant as we will contribute directly to the economy of Sierra 
Leone through payments of royalty and taxes to the Government 
of Sierra Leone; and indirectly through our social development 
royalty, local employment and local supply chain initiatives. 
As we enter a new phase of operations, construction and 
development we are ever more appreciative of the need to 
minimise the impact of our operations to the surrounding 
environment and communities and to keep our employees safe. 
We continue to aim for zero harm and are pleased to report zero 
fatalities in 2011. We formed a Health, Safety and Environment 
committee   in 2011, we aim to monitor, report and improve on 
health and safety performance over the coming year.
Governance and Board 
We were able to strengthen our Board signiﬁcantly in 2011 
with the appointment of Colin Harris, Benjamin Lee and 
Luciano Ramos. Colin has been appointed as an independent 
Non-Executive Director and brings extensive mining experience 
to London Mining, as an exploration geologist with over 40 
years’ industry expertise. Benjamin and Luciano have been vital 
components of London Mining’s success since joining the 
Company, including developing and disposing of our asset in 
Brazil as well as contributing to the ﬁnancing, construction and 
ongoing operation of Marampa. Their appointment ensures that 
the Board is able to beneﬁt fully from their insights and expertise.
Our people 
Our people are key to delivering on our strategy. We have 
made two new senior appointments: Claude Perras as 
Head of Sustainability and Rosh Bardien as Group Head 
of Human Resources. 
Outlook
The people, high quality assets and sound ﬁnancial footing we 
now have in place will ensure 2012 will be a year of consolidation 
for future growth for London Mining as we continue to deliver  
our production ramp-up and ﬁnalise our long term growth plans.  
We are proud of what we have achieved at Marampa and our 
other assets in 2011. The Board would like to congratulate 
Graeme and his team for their hard work this year and for 
delivering on our strategic goals and moving London Mining from 
a developer to a producer as we build towards a FTSE listing.
Dr Colin Knight
Chairman
2011 was a milestone year for London 
Mining. We moved from being a developer 
to a producer in December and laid the 
groundwork to ship our ﬁrst iron ore from 
the Marampa mine in January 2012. 
201 1 was in many ways like 2008 for London Mining in that  
we developed a mine in a climate of uncertainty in the global 
ﬁnancial markets and have once again delivered a new source  
of iron ore capacity at low capital cost as well as deﬁning a 
production proﬁle that will contribute to strong upward earnings 
momentum for several years to come. We believe that demand 
for iron ore will remain robust due to continued demand for steel 
from emerging economies. Competition for capital means that 
existing producers will be in the strongest position to grow as 
they are able to fund production expansion from cash ﬂow and 
to provide greater visibility on product speciﬁcation and volume 
to customers.
Results and progress 
Restarting the Marampa mine after almost 40 years of inactivity 
is a huge achievement for London Mining and for Sierra Leone. 
The production of high speciﬁcation iron ore after decades of 
mine inactivity marked the beginning of our Phase 1 ramp up  
and forms the basis for our planned phased expansions to over 
16Mtpa. Our plan for Marampa evolved signiﬁcantly in 201 1 as  
we fully deﬁned the opportunities presented by the signiﬁcant 
addition of resources. Together with expert insights from our 
technical team, production growth in the short term can be 
accelerated through simple optimisation of the processing plant 
and logistics. The longer term plan to develop Marampa from 
an operation with capacity of 1.5Mtpa to over 16Mtpa was also 
deﬁned by the April 201 1 prefeasibility study (“PFS”) and we look 
forward to the completion of a bankable feasibility study (“BFS”) 
in Q3 2012 for the ﬁrst increment of this expansion to 9Mtpa. 
We continue to build and develop our investment case and  
we have a clear strategy for growing value. We have been 
encouraged by the continued support from our shareholders 
through their participation in the USD 1 10 million convertible 
bond issue in January 201 1 and in the issuance of USD 91 million 
of new equity in January 2012. We have also raised to date 
USD 210 million through alternative sources of ﬁnance. 
The progress achieved at our projects in Greenland, Colombia 
and Saudi Arabia is testament to the energy, commitment and 
expertise of our management teams.
Sustainable development 
To realise our growth plans we know we must attract and retain 
talented people and ensure that the communities and countries 
Dr Colin Knight
Chairman
