 10
London Mining Plc
Annual Report 2011
potential strategic investors. Our joint venture in the Wadi 
Sawawin project advanced further in its aims to produce  
direct reduction (“DR”) quality pellets in Saudi Arabia as we 
continued to work with National Mining Company, (“NMC”) to 
conclude the preconstruction engineering design and arrange 
full ﬁnancing for the project.
Key events through the year
We had a busy year and some of the key events are highlighted here:
Our primary focus for 201 1 was on ﬁnancing, developing and 
implementing an expanded operation at Marampa following 
conﬁrmation of over 1 billion tonnes of JORC resource of which 
81% now falls in the Indicated category. The increased resource 
formed the basis of a PFS in April which outlined the development 
plan for a greater than 16Mtpa operation. This plan set out a 
staged development, starting with reprocessing of tailings from 
previous operations then moving to mining and processing of 
weathered ore and then the unweathered primary ore for a large 
scale-long term mining operation. Test work continued through the 
year and key ﬁndings were incorporated and engineered into the 
initial plant design. As a result, our Stage 1 plan which originally 
targeted 1.5Mtpa from tailings has now been expanded to a 
planned 5Mtpa from a blend of tailings and highly weathered 
ore. Marampa began production of high speciﬁcation iron ore 
in December 201 1 and shipments of Marampa concentrate, 
to both Europe and China, began in January 2012.
Highlights at our other projects included the completion of  
a BFS demonstrating compelling economics for a 15Mtpa 
operation in Greenland, commissioning and ﬁrst production 
from the coke production unit in Colombia and progressing 
the Wadi Sawawin project with our joint venture partner NMC.
Through the year, we arranged a variety of ﬁnancings to support 
our development activities and the implementation of a larger project 
at Marampa than originally planned. These included a convertible  
bond placement of USD 1 10.0 million, a corporate debt facility  
of USD 90.7 million with Standard Chartered Bank, initial offtake  
prepayment facility with Glencore of up to USD 27.0 million, and 
a 1% royalty arrangement on Isua for USD 30.0 million with Anglo 
Paciﬁc. In the post period we have secured net proceeds USD 
18.4 million of lease ﬁnancing through Oldendorff for the “Pride 
of Marampa” Floating Offshore Transhipment Platform (“FOTP”) 
and gross proceeds of USD 90.7 million through an issue of 
new common shares and signed a prepayment agreement linked 
to offtake of USD 45.0 million from Vitol. We are conﬁdent of 
continuing to fund growth in our projects through various methods 
of ﬁnance as may be appropriate for each project. This will be based 
on identifying clear value creation potential through expansion or 
implementation and demonstrating the expertise to carry it out. For 
larger capital projects such as Greenland, we are pursuing strategic 
partner funding.
With its ﬁrst production coming on line 
and an increase in its longer term growth 
potential, our Marampa mine was a key 
highlight for us this year. We are very 
proud of what we are achieving there, 
but it is part of a bigger story. The start 
of production at Marampa marks one of 
many planned high points as we continue 
to deliver on our promise to provide high 
quality iron ore supply for the global steel 
industry in a way that creates long term 
value for our business and for the 
communities we live and work in.
Twenty months on from ordering our long lead items for the 
Marampa mine and logistics system in Sierra Leone, we produced 
our ﬁrst ore in December 201 1. As well as reaching this milestone 
we also signiﬁcantly improved the long term economics of the 
project through the continuous optimisation of the production  
plan following a 10-fold increase in historical resources. 
The Marampa plant and logistics system is working as designed 
and began regular shipments of premium speciﬁcation iron ore 
sinter feed concentrate from January 2012 as we ramp up to 
initial installed capacity of 1.5Mtpa.
Marampa is particularly attractive because of its good location 
and the nature and quality of its ore. It is located only 40km from 
tidewater, allowing simple and low cost logistics. What is more, 
the nature of the types of ore present – now clearly identiﬁed after 
90,000 metres of drilling – allows us to develop it very ﬂexibly in a 
series of increments towards its ultimate planned yearly capacity of 
greater than 16Mtpa. As a result, we can produce signiﬁcant cash 
ﬂows early and defer other capital expenditure to later stages 
of development, signiﬁcantly funded from early cash ﬂow. An 
additional differentiating factor is that the mine produces high 
speciﬁcation product which commands a premium price over 
more standard products. This high grade is preferred by steel 
mills who are encountering falling grades from other suppliers. 
Through 2011, we have continued to progress our projects 
elsewhere and to implement our clear strategy for growing 
value for shareholders by moving good near term projects 
through the development curve. Colombia became our third 
producing London Mining asset, after Brazil (which was sold in 
2008) and Marampa. In addition, the recently completed BFS 
for Isua indicates the project is a compelling proposition for 
201 1 was a breakthrough year for London Mining  
as we moved from a developer to a producer.  
We achieved this goal in line with our promise  
to provide the global steel industry with a new 
high quality supply of iron ore.
Chief Executive’s strategic review Overview
11
London Mining Plc
Annual Report 2011
Growing our 
resource base
 Resource definition
 Exploration
 M&A
 
Evaluation
Selection and 
investment criteria
 Viable logistics
 Resource quality and size
 Product specification
 Rapid development potential
 Sustainable margins
Investment metrics
 ROCE
 ROE
 NPV
 IRR 
 EBITDA 
 
 
Cash flow and 
value creation
Key technical
competencies
 Geology and mine 
 planning
 Processing 
 and metallurgy
 Logistics
 Engineering
 and construction
Development 
and optimisation
 Feasibility
 Construction
 Production
fund further expansion. All our current iron ore projects are located 
no further than 1 10km from deep water suitable for the loading of 
ocean-going vessels. They have either been previously producing 
or had signiﬁcant resource identiﬁcation and feasibility work carried 
out and are able to produce a high speciﬁcation product that is 
readily saleable on the seaborne iron ore market and are low cost for 
the type of product they produce. 
Staged production growth
This can involve both staged expansion of an operating asset 
as well as bringing additional projects into production. Building 
production rapidly to generate cash ﬂow to fund and drive further 
expansion is our preferred development strategy and is taking 
place in both our Sierra Leonean and Colombian operations. We 
see strong feasibility work as the basis for attracting investment to 
larger capital projects and expansion phases. 
Our business model
We develop mines to supply the global steel industry and aim  
to become a top 10 global producer of iron ore. To this end, we 
apply a very simple and practical business model to enable the 
development of multiple projects. This is based on applying strong 
operational and technical competencies to assets which meet our 
evaluation criteria and taking an appropriate ﬁnancing approach to 
each asset. As we develop and realise this value for all our 
stakeholders we intend to both reinvest selectively in further 
signiﬁcant value opportunities where we can employ our core 
competencies and return proﬁts to shareholders.
Growing our resource base of valuable assets
We select assets with near term production or expansion potential, 
with viable logistics and long term sustainable margins. Our assets 
have simple and self determined logistics and some have potential 
to be brought quickly to production with cash ﬂow often able to 
62
Our strategy and business model – growing a sustainable, high quality iron ore supply
Graeme Hossie 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
USD million 
Annual tonne capacity for ﬁrst 
5Mtpa of capacity at Marampa 12
London Mining Plc
Annual Report 2011
Production
Capital intensity
(USD/annual tonne of capacity)
Near term 
expansion
Bankable 
feasibility study
Prefeasibility 
study
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
16Mtpa 9Mtpa
15Mtpa
5Mtpa
5Mtpa
1.5Mtpa
Marampa 
Phase 2
expansion
Marampa 
Phase 1
expansion
Marampa expansion
to 5Mtpa
Wadi Sawawin
5Mtpa of DR pellets
Average cost of new supply (Source: CRU International) 
Marampa 
first production
Isua
2.3
USD billion tonnes
Total attributable iron 
ore resources
Chief Executive’s strategic review
continued
We ﬁnance our projects on a case-by-case basis in the 
most appropriate way for each asset. This makes sense 
because each asset has a distinct ﬁnancing solution and 
opportunities to optimise value for our shareholders.  
At Marampa for example, the presence of tailings from 
former operations and presence of soft, highly weathered 
ore means that production can be developed quickly for 
relatively low initial capital expenditure with fast capital 
payback and then expanded in stages using early cash ﬂow. 
Marampa also beneﬁts from its ability to produce a premium 
product enabling us to secure offtake-related ﬁnancing with 
pricing related to the spot benchmark. This modular 
approach at Marampa means we are able to plan on the 
basis of later expansions being funded from a combination 
of cash ﬂow, offtake arrangements and debt. There is also 
potential to accelerate our Phase 2 expansion at Marampa 
to over 16Mtpa if ﬁnance on suitable value accretive terms 
were provided by a strategic investor. For the Isua project in 
Greenland, funds to complete drilling and a BFS were 
raised by selling a project-speciﬁc royalty based on the 
quality and compelling nature of the project.
The right strategic partnerships create important mutually 
beneﬁcial opportunities to fund and participate in ownership in 
larger capital projects. At Isua for example, we have involved 
Chinese engineering groups and have also been actively 
speaking to potential Chinese funding partners.
Skilled people
Skilled people and skilled teams are a vital part of our business 
as they enable us to drive our fast track development capability. 
Our growth proﬁle, asset base and successful track record has 
allowed us to attract the highest quality professionals who wish 
to share in our ambitions to grow and succeed. We have built a 
world-class technical team with expertise drawn from many of the 
large diversiﬁed mining and engineering companies. The creativity 
and ﬂexibility of our people has enabled us to move quickly in fast 
tracking progress and to adapt rapidly to new opportunities. At 
Marampa for example, our technical team designed a versatile 
plant and ﬂexible logistics solution which has enabled us to 
accommodate signiﬁcant new resources into our short term mine 
plan much earlier than anticipated and for low additional capital 
expenditure. What is more, being able to begin production and 
cash ﬂow early from processing existing tailings has enabled us 
to get into production and cash ﬂows years earlier than would 
a typical larger company approach.
London Mining project pipeline – delivering low cost, high quality supply Overview
13
London Mining Plc
Annual Report 2011
Our business plan
1.   To deliver proﬁtable near term production growth 
We are focused on delivering high margin (through low cost/high 
quality) production quickly, within a disciplined framework, to 
meet the immediate needs of the global steel industry and 
become a long term supplier of choice for our customers through 
quality and consistency of product and reliability of supply. 
Progress in 2011 
During 2011 we began production in Marampa and 
demonstrated the possibility for a 10-fold increase in production 
capacity following the completion of a PFS in April and the 
delineation of over 1 billion tonnes of resources at Marampa,  
a 30 fold increase on our maiden resource statement for the 
project in December 2010. We completed construction of  
our ﬁrst processing plant and are ramping up production.  
We have also commenced construction for our second plant  
to complete the Phase 1 expansion to 5Mtpa. 
We moved closer towards establishing a growing coke and 
coking coal business in Colombia, completing construction of 
the ﬁrst phase of coke ovens and beginning initial production 
started in January 2012. A logistics capability for export has 
also been secured.
Looking forward 
We expect to deliver 1.5Mt of iron ore production from Marampa 
in 2012 and through construction of our second plant grow to 
4.2Mt in 2013 and to 5Mt in 2014.
We expect that the BFS for the Marampa expansion to 9Mtpa 
will be completed in Q3 2012. This will provide us with the 
opportunity to invest further in the project using cash ﬂow from 
operations to expand production and generate exceptional 
ﬁnancial returns. 
We have commenced production from our coke ovens in 
Colombia from local coking coal supply and will ramp up to 
200ktpa by the end of 2012. We are looking to secure coking 
coal feedstock though our exploration activities to develop 
integrated production and opportunities for export.
2. To identify further growth opportunities and further assets 
from which we can leverage growth 
We have a track record of identifying and acquiring assets that 
have the potential to be rapidly developed using our experience 
and technical capability and which provide signiﬁcant value 
creation potential by bringing on near term production. We are 
adept at optimising our assets to reach their economic potential. 
Progress in 2011
2011 has been a year of implementing production and logistics 
systems and of adding value to existing development projects. 
We have achieved great success by further developing existing 
projects, most notably at Marampa. project value and return at 
Marampa has been greatly enhanced by adding resources, 
enhancing the near term mining plan and expanding next  
stage potential. 
We have completed a BFS for our Isua project in Greenland which 
shows the project to have extremely robust fundamentals. Our 
201 1 drilling campaign at Isua conﬁrmed over a billion tonnes of 
JORC resources and also delineated further mineralisation 
potential of between 950 and 1,500Mt including a high grade 
hematite target of between 150 and 300Mt. 
Looking forward
Our current focus is on further developing the operation  
at Marampa so that it can reach its full economic potential 
through considered and systematic expansion. We intend to 
ﬁnd a funding partner to allow construction of the 15Mtpa 
operation in Greenland to commence and thereby build a 
second signiﬁcant production centre in this stable OECD 
country. We intend to move our Colombian and Saudi Arabian 
strategies forward to achieve our near term production aims.  
In the longer term we continue to assess investment opportunities 
which best suit strategy, capabilities and experience.
To deliver proﬁtable near term 
production growth
 To identify further growth 
opportunities and further assets 
from which we can leverage growth
To build ﬁnancing capability 
through multiple means to  
fund our growth proﬁle
To be a responsible and 
sustainable business
1
2
3
4
Our business plan to create value
Radial stacker and 
barge loading at 
Thofeyim river terminal 14
London Mining Plc
Annual Report 2011
Chief Executive’s strategic review
continued
3. To build ﬁnancing capability through multiple means to fund 
our growth proﬁle 
To achieve our optimum growth proﬁle we expect both to  
build near term signiﬁcant cash ﬂows for reinvestment and to 
develop strong relationships with industry customers/partners 
and ﬁnancial institutions. 
Progress in 2011
Our ﬁnancial capability has been greatly enhanced following  
the commencement of production at Marampa. The production 
of high speciﬁcation product has enabled us to secure low  
cost debt ﬁnance through offtake relationships: Marampa 
developments this year have enhanced our production proﬁle 
and we have been encouraged by the continued support from 
our shareholders through their participation in the USD 110.0 
million convertible bond issue in January 2011 and in the 
issuance of USD 90.7 million of new equity in January 2012.  
We have also secured USD 30.0 million to fund the development 
of Isua through a royalty agreement with Anglo Paciﬁc and 
secured a USD 90.0 million revolving credit facility with 
Standard Chartered Bank. USD 18.4 million of lease ﬁnancing  
for the Pride of Marampa FOTP in 2012 was also provided by 
Oldendorff and USD 45.0 million offtake related prepayment  
has been signed with Vitol.
Looking forward
We are focused on cash ﬂow from near term production 
opportunities to strengthen our balance sheet and debt 
capability. We await the results of the BFS for the Marampa 
expansion to 9Mtpa which will deﬁne the capital requirement 
and availability of product for future offtake agreements. We are 
also assessing the option to bring on a strategic partner or 
partners to fund accelerated growth at Marampa and production 
at Isua. We will continue to evaluate offtake-related funding 
opportunities for our growing production. We are also conﬁdent 
that by adhering to international best practice we will be able 
to form partnerships with international ﬁnance institutions to 
develop infrastructure that can beneﬁt multiple stakeholders. 
4. To be a responsible and sustainable business 
Our commitment to sustainable development underpins 
everything that we do as it is through this that we gain and 
maintain our licence to operate. We believe that we have 
the opportunity to bring long term and positive beneﬁts 
for the communities in which we operate. 
Progress in 2011
Our ongoing success in Sierra Leone depends on maintaining 
our good relationships with all stakeholders, including local 
communities and Government. We are extremely proud of 
our contribution to the Sierra Leone economy. The economic 
beneﬁt of our operations at Marampa will form a very signiﬁcant 
part of Sierra Leone’s GDP and our success encourages other 
companies and ﬁnancial institutions to invest in the country. 
Even at this stage we have generated over 1,200 local jobs, 
with 89% of jobs at Marampa going to Sierra Leoneans.  
The multiplier effect in the local economy of our economic 
activity and local procurement is creating widespread new 
opportunity. We have established a form of equitable treaty  
with the Government, including an active social investment 
program, which gives surety to our investment plans and 
allows Marampa to attain its full economic potential and 
beneﬁt all stakeholders. 
Looking forward
We commenced royalty payments to the Government of Sierra 
Leone and began contributions into a social development fund 
through a revenue-based royalty in Q1 2012. The appointment 
of Claude Perras as our Head of Sustainability will help give us 
the capability to develop sustainable production and economic 
returns whilst delivering tangible beneﬁts to stakeholders.  
We will achieve this by building partnerships with NGOs, 
development agencies and government, providing 
infrastructure investment opportunities for international ﬁnance 
institutions and developing and implementing local content 
policies. Attaining international best practice standards in 
addressing the needs of all our stakeholders as well as the 
application of appropriate community and environmental  
policy will help build our reputation and credibility to ensure  
we can secure ﬁnancing and a social licence to operate in  
all jurisdictions.
Summary
At London Mining we have a clear strategy to grow value for  
all stakeholders – from delivering good ﬁnancial returns to 
improving the lives of our communities, from keeping our 
employees safe and healthy to responsibly contributing to the 
countries in which we operate. Our disciplined approach to  
developing our assets has enabled us to plan for the expansion 
and further development of our assets. We are excited about 
our future and look forward to continuing to execute our 
strategy and grow the business for the long term within 
a disciplined framework.
Graeme Hossie 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
 
Blended tailings 
material from historical 
operations being fed 
into the Marampa plant 
for reprocessing
 
