 06
Chief Executive’s Review
Dear Shareholders,
Introduction
Lonmin produced a satisfactory performance in 2009,
despite some significant challenges and the completion
of a major restructuring programme during the year.
Production at our core Marikana underground operations
was in line with 2008 levels and we achieved our revised
2009 sales guidance by selling 682,955 ounces of
Platinum.
Whilst there is still some way to go before we achieve
our goal of fully restoring the operational health of the
business, 2009 saw significant steps in achieving this
objective, enabling us to provide guidance for 2010 sales
of 700,000 Platinum ounces, implying a slight increase
from 2009. Whilst the increment is only modest, it is a
significant turning point. Importantly, improving the
operational health of the business will also ensure that we
are well positioned to capitalise on the investments we
have made over recent years as we look to deliver further
growth into the robust market fundamentals we foresee
in 2011 and beyond.
1. Significant management actions taken:
At the end of 2008, we reacted swiftly to the global
economic downturn, taking a number of significant
actions.
Non-value adding production eliminated
Firstly, we took an immediate decision to eliminate
non-value adding production. We placed our
uneconomic Baobab shaft at Limpopo on to care
and maintenance for the foreseeable future. We also
closed our opencast operations at Marikana, as well
as rationalising certain areas of high cost production
at the underground operations there. In total, these
actions have removed around 75,000 Platinum
ounces from the market place.
Major cost restructuring programme completed
Alongside that exercise, we completed a major
restructuring programme across our operations, with
all personnel levels affected and around 20% of our
total workforce leaving the business during the year.
This was a significant, but essential, exercise as we
right sized the organisation and reduced costs.
Understandably the restructuring programme
impacted employee morale and caused some
disruption to production for a large part of the year.
Balance sheet strengthened
We negotiated with our lending banks the re-financing
of a significant portion of our debt facilities during the
year, with the tenure of these facilities being extended
beyond short term horizons. In addition, we then
successfully strengthened our balance sheet by
raising $458 million through the completion of a
Rights Issue in June. Furthermore, we successfully
negotiated the waiving of all EBITDA covenants
relating to our debt facilities until September 2010.
Operational headquarters and executive management
team relocated
In October 2009, we announced plans to relocate
our operational headquarters from London to
Johannesburg. This will place executive management
in a single location close to our operations and will
therefore enhance day-to-day management and
communications. It will also enable us to engage
more effectively with our South African stakeholders.
2. Industry-wide supply challenges:
The significant factors currently impacting the South
African PGM industry are likely to continue into 2010.
PGM industry continues to be cash constrained
South African mining inflation remains relatively high,
putting pressure on industry margins and capital
investment. Recent improvements in US dollar-based
PGM pricing have been largely offset by South
African Rand strength, which has resulted in capital
shortages and new projects being delayed. Cash flow
management remains a high priority in the industry.
Labour environment remains challenging
The labour environment continues to be a significant
influence on the performance of producers, from both
a productivity and cost perspective. Industry wage
settlements for 2010 have once again been above
inflation. Lonmin’s negotiations take place late in the
year and, at the time of writing this report, we remain
in discussions with our recognised unions on this
matter. Furthermore, the shortage of key skills
remains an issue for the mining industry in general.
With these challenges in mind, Lonmin recognises
the importance of employee engagement strategies.
Section 54 safety stoppages increasing in frequency
We support the Department of Mineral Resources’
increased focus on safety. This focus was evidenced
in 2009 by an increase in prevalence and severity
of Section 54 safety stoppages throughout the
industry. Lonmin lost over half a million tonnes of
ore production as a result of these stoppages during
the 2009 financial year, representing some 30,000
Platinum ounces or 5% of total underground
production. These stoppages are likely to continue
in 2010 and beyond. Our challenge is to improve on
our industry-leading safety record in order to reduce
the impact of these stoppages on our operational
and financial performance.
Producers who are able to deliver the strongest
safety performances should benefit from fewer
interruptions and higher productivity. Our safety
performance remains strong and improved slightly
in 2009. However, it was with regret that we reported
the death of three of our employees during the year.
Increasingly difficult and more complex geology
The Bushveld Complex is a mature geological
environment and mines in the area will continue
to deepen over time, with many of the easier to
access reserves becoming steadily depleted. This
is expected to have a consequent impact on industry
costs, grades and recoveries in the future. Lonmin
is in the fortunate position of having access to
relatively shallow reserves and resources.
Outlook for supply and cost of electricity remains
uncertain
Challenges in the supply and cost of electricity in
South Africa remain. Electricity pricing tariffs are
expected to increase by over 45% in 2010 and
there will be similar power price increases in the
subsequent years. In addition, there is a possibility
that security of supply could again come under
pressure in the medium term, adding to the supply
side challenges outlined above. www.lonmin.com 07
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
4. Key Focus Areas for 2010 & beyond:
Lonmin needs to be well prepared for the opportunity
presented by the prospect of an improvement in the
market environment. As such, our focus in 2010
and beyond is on completing the restoration of the
operational health of the business, growing our unit
throughput and, through this, improving our position
on the cost curve.
a) Restoring operational health:
In the Mining business, we have implemented
several productivity improvement initiatives and
cost-control programmes, as well as increasing
our focus on employee relations. We reorganised
our senior operational management team to
ensure a greater emphasis on long term
operational health, with a specific focus on long
term planning. Our Process Division benefited
from stability throughout the value chain, assisted
by our increased investment in plant maintenance.
I am confident that we now have a strong
management team in place across the business,
supported by improving morale within the
business.
Further details on these initiatives can be
found in the Operational Review.
b) Delivering organic growth:
We expect to deliver several years of steady
growth from our core Marikana operations
through production from our three new shafts,
Saffy, Hossy and K4. The majority of the capital
needed to initiate and ramp-up production at
these shafts has already been invested. Capital
expenditure is now predominantly focused on ore
body development to support the production
ramp-up of these shafts.
Short to medium term growth in mined production –
from Saffy, Hossy and K4
At Saffy shaft, we made good progress during the
year in converting our mining method from fully
mechanised to hybrid mining. There is still some work
to be done before this process is completed, but we
achieved our target of 80,000 tonnes per month, up
from 45,000 tonnes at the end of the 2008 financial
year. In 2010, we expect Saffy to continue to ramp-up
towards its production capacity of 200,000 tonnes
per month. More details on the progress being made
at Saffy can be found in a case study on page 11 of
this report.
A year ago, we took the decision to continue to
run Hossy shaft on a fully mechanised basis. At that
time, we set a productivity target for Hossy for the
end of the 2009 financial year of an average of 1,500
square metres per month per suite of equipment. I
am delighted to say that this target was achieved in
September 2009, with the best performing suites at
Hossy reaching productivity of around 1,800 square
metres per suite per month during that month.
Furthermore, the shaft achieved monthly production
of over 60,000 tonnes at that time, from 20,000
tonnes per month in September 2008. Whilst this
performance does not yet make production costs
competitive with conventional mining methods, it is
encouraging to see what can be done once the
appropriate degree of focus is applied. Consequently,
we have taken the decision to continue with a fully
mechanised mining method at Hossy for the
foreseeable future and we are now targeting to reach
2,200 square metres per suite of equipment per
month by September 2011.
3. The possibility of a positive surprise in the PGM
pricing:
The Rand PGM basket price throughout 2009
continued to squeeze industry profitability and cash
flow, restricting capital investment. If this continues,
further short term under-investment will be the natural
consequence. We therefore anticipate that supply
will struggle to keep up with recovering demand from
2010 onwards and, as demand returns, there should
be a recovery in PGM profit margins.
Short to medium term outlook for Platinum demand
Looking at Platinum specifically over the next few
years, we expect demand to improve gradually
in 2010. This will be supported by a steady recovery
in the automotive and industrial sectors with the
market being in balance for the year. The behaviour
of investors in the Exchange-Traded Funds will
continue to influence short term price movements.
In early to mid 2011, we expect to see the start of
a more significant upturn in demand, supported
by increasing momentum in the automotive and
industrial sectors followed by a more pronounced
market rebound, with the market moving back
into deficit.
Long term outlook for Platinum and PGM demand
In the longer term, the future of PGM market
fundamentals remains strong, primarily as a result
of the unique characteristics of PGMs and their
applications in autocatalysts. This is underpinned
by the various emissions legislation being introduced
in the coming years to combat global climate change.
In addition, PGMs are expected to be critical in the
application of fuel cell technology, which continues
to advance in a number of sectors, including a
growing number of commercial applications for
stationary fuel cells. The Platinum market, in
particular, is also expected to be supported by
continuing demand from the Asian jewellery market.
As a result of these factors, we firmly believe that the
Platinum and other Platinum group metal markets
continue to be structurally compelling over time.
Ian Farmer
Chief Executive Officer
“Lonmin will be well placed to capitalise on the investment made
in recent years as we deliver growth into the robust market
fundamentals we foresee in 2011 and beyond.”
Ian Farmer 08
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
The development of K4 remains on track and we
anticipate initial production will take place in the first
half of the 2012 financial year, although development
ounces will be produced in 2011. By the time K4
ramps up to full production of around 225,000 tonnes
per month, we expect these three shafts will be
contributing over 50% of our total underground
production at Marikana.
This organic growth from our Mining business
will be supplemented by a number of projects at our
Marikana property, from which we expect to deliver
further value. This includes the extraction of chrome
from our mined production and the re-treatment of
tailings following the processing of this chrome.
Medium term requirement to increase smelting
capacity and reduce risk
It is crucial that the growth in mined production
is supported by processing capacity and reliability,
particularly at our smelting facility.
From a reliability perspective, we experienced
a matte run-out at the Number One furnace in June
2009, following which we acted quickly to mitigate
the impact on production. Our knowledge of the
workings of the furnace has improved as a result of
the incident and we have a highly competent team
running it. Smelting will always be a high risk aspect
of our industry, however, we are confident that we will
be able to improve further our management of this
unit in the future and therefore improve the vessel’s
reliability.
From a capacity perspective, our Number One
and Pyromet furnaces have the requisite capacity
to support current and medium term levels of
production. However, taking into account our longer
term growth ambitions, and the need to mitigate the
risk of Smelter disruptions, we anticipate a
requirement for increased Smelter capacity in the
coming years. We have therefore started to
investigate options for additional backup capacity.
c) Improving our position on the cost curve
The focus on restoring the operational health of
the business and delivering organic growth is
critical to improving our position on the industry
cost curve.
Actions taken to support this included the
completion of a major restructuring programme
at our operations, through which we anticipated
$90 million of annualised cost savings. During
the second half of 2009 we estimate that we
actually saved $64 million and so we are well
on our way to beating this target. This helped
us to report Rand gross operating costs below
our initial, as well as our revised and more
challenging, cost guidance target communicated
during the year.
In addition we have implemented a number of
productivity improvement programmes and cost-
cutting initiatives across the business to ensure
that our position on the cost curve continues to
move in the right direction. Details on these
initiatives are outlined in the Operational Review.
The continued inflationary environment in
South Africa, including an anticipated increase
in real wages for the majority of our workforce,
means that strict cost control allied to growth in
productivity is paramount next year. In 2010, we
are targeting to manage the increase in South
African Rand gross operating costs to be below
local inflation.
5. Outlook
Our Marikana operations remain at the heart of the
Lonmin business and our focus remains on improving
safety, reducing costs and growing production,
through delivery of profitable ounces, from what is
a high quality, sizeable ore body. In this regard it is
pleasing to see a reported 20% increase in our
resource base at Marikana, more detail on which can
be found on pages 16 and 17 of this Report.
We anticipate Marikana mined production will
increase in 2010, more than offsetting the reduction
in opencast tonnes and ounces from Pandora, as these
pits are now closed. This should allow metals in
concentrate production to increase by around 5% and,
as a result, we expect to achieve 2010 sales of around
700,000 Platinum ounces, slightly ahead of 2009.
To support this growth, we anticipate that capital
expenditure for the 2010 financial year will be up to
$270 million. This will predominantly be focused on
Saffy and Hossy, as well as on declines in our two
largest conventional shafts and the continued
development of K4. We will of course continue to
maintain a balance between the investment
requirements of the business and the imperative of
maintaining a strong balance sheet.
Beyond 2010, the ramp-up of the three newer
shafts will more than offset the decline in production
from some of our smaller shallower shafts which are
expected to come to the end of their lives over the
next few years. As a result, we expect to steadily
grow metal in concentrate production from our
Marikana operations and the Pandora joint venture
so that by 2013 we expect to deliver sustained,
profitable production of around 850,000 ounces of
Platinum per annum. This will be supported by capital
expenditure of between $300 million and $350 million
per annum from 2011. This anticipated production
growth and capital investment is of course subject to
market conditions, and our planning in this regard will
be regularly reviewed by management, as market
circumstances unfold.
Our growth projects at Akanani and Limpopo give
us longer term growth optionality to supplement the
short to medium term growth to be delivered from our
core operations at Marikana.
Achieving this growth, supported by the
restoration of the operational health of the business,
is a significant challenge but one which will restore
the market’s view of Lonmin as the quality asset in
the sector. In January we will commence the process
of consolidating the executive team in Johannesburg,
thereby enhancing day-to-day management and
communication within the business.
Employees’ contribution
We cannot achieve our short term and long term goals
without the support of our employees, contractors and
community members. 2009 has been a very challenging
year especially given the disruptive impact of the
restructuring programme. I would like to thank everybody
for their contribution, support, and hard work during
the year.
Ian Farmer
Chief Executive Officer
13 November 2009 2009 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com 09
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Hendrik Swanepoel
Mine Overseer, 1B Shaft
At 1B Shaft, which produced around
325,000 tonnes in the 2009 financial year,
we have maintained our strong safety record
through disciplined planning of the mining
cycle of drilling, bolting, blasting and
cleaning. This is supported by regular, open
communication between shaft management
and crew members – at the start of each shift,
we have a “changeover” meeting between day
and night shift management teams, followed
by a meeting with each crew, which includes
a discussion of relevant safety issues. We also
maintain a high quality of mining, through
consistent cleaning and generally good house-
keeping underground, which helps our crew
members to remain well prepared and focussed
on the task in hand. As a consequence of all
these factors, our 14 man crews are settled,
stable and extremely well organised, and each
crew member is acutely aware of their role
and daily responsibilities. This guarantees the
close-knit teamwork necessary to maintain a
controlled, organised and, ultimately, safe
mining environment.
“SAFE MINING PRACTICES ARE INGRAINED
IN LONMIN’S CULTURE”
Hendrik Swanepoel
Case Study: 1B Shaft
– By September 2009, no Lost Time Injuries for over two years
