 04
Chairman’s Letter
Dear Shareholders,
Overview of the year
My first year as Chairman of Lonmin Plc has been an
eventful and challenging one. The business has operated
in an extremely difficult pricing and currency environment
with the average US Dollar basket price per PGM ounce
sold some 49% lower than last year. As a result, our
revenues declined dramatically by over 50% or $1.2 billion.
The first signs that this revenue collapse was a
possibility occurred very early in the year and management
took immediate decisive action through the closure of
unprofitable operations, the reduction of costs and the
restriction of capital expenditure. This was followed by
the strengthening of our funding position and then our
balance sheet to position us to weather the storm.
Overall, under Ian Farmer’s leadership, the
management team has made good progress in the drive
to restore the operational health of the business. The
strong focus on operational stability and discipline has
brought increased rigour to the setting of targets and the
monitoring of performances against them. It is pleasing
to report that in the 2009 financial year we were largely
successful in delivering against our key targets:
• Marikana platinum sales: were only 2% below our
target set at the start of the year;
• Costs: Rand gross operating costs were lower than
our original guidance as well as our updated and
more challenging guidance set in May 2009, and
crucially were lower than in the previous financial year;
• Restructuring: we achieved $64 million of cost
savings in the second half of 2009 as a result of the
restructuring programme, ahead of our initial
annualised target of $90 million;
• Productivity and production: by the end of the year
at our Mining business, Hossy and Saffy had both
achieved their published productivity and production
targets and we made good progress in restoring ore
reserve development. At our Process Division,
monthly recoveries improved materially; and
• Balance sheet: capital expenditure for 2009 and year
end net debt were both within market guidance.
While so much has been achieved in a short time, it
was disappointing that difficulties were again experienced
with the Number One furnace, which was taken out of
operation for a period towards the end of the financial
year and subsequently operated at reduced capacity.
There is much to be done before the operational
health of Lonmin is fully restored. This must however be
achieved in conjunction with an increase in safe
production and an improvement in our position on the
cost curve. All efforts will be directed towards these
achievements in 2010 and beyond in order to position
Lonmin to maximise benefit as the market recovers.
Rights Issue
A successful $458 million Rights Issue was completed
in June 2009. As a result, Lonmin now enjoys greater
financial headroom, with enhanced balance sheet
flexibility and an improved ability to withstand potential
adverse movements in the PGM pricing environment
and / or the Rand / US dollar exchange rate. We are
grateful to our shareholders for their over-whelming
support for this fund raising.
Lonmin in the South African landscape
Our ability to operate effectively as an investor in South
Africa is a function of our behaviour as a responsible
corporate citizen. Lonmin embraces the tenets of the
Mining Charter and seeks in its actions to advance the
transformation agenda prescribed by the South African
government. In this context it is however inescapable that
the economic realities imposed by metal pricing, currency
exchange rates and general financial conditions – none
of which the Company can control – can have profound
effects on the rate at which mutual aspirations can
be realised.
Relations with our employees are of paramount
importance, and we put on record our appreciation of
the constructive behaviour of our employees, the trade
unions, and indeed government, in the extensive and
painful restructuring exercise conducted in the early
months of the year. Constructive engagement also forms
the basis of our current wage negotiations: industry
settlements to date have been in excess of inflation
despite the harsh revenue environment and lack of
profitability. The long term health of the industry generally,
and Lonmin in particular, depends on an appropriate
balance being reached between increased wage awards,
productivity improvements and the imperative of
profitability to enable the business to invest for growth
and earn appropriate shareholder returns.
Lonmin believes that it can, and should, operate as a
zero-harm business and strives in every way to improve
continuously its safety performance, acknowledging that
its business is inherently hazardous. It is a matter of the
deepest regret that three employees lost their lives during
the year and I would like to convey our sincerest
condolences to their families. The very considerable
improvement in our safety performance achieved over
recent years slowed slightly in 2009, partly due to the
disruption to operations caused by the extensive
restructuring exercise, which reduced employment levels
by some 20%.
We support fully the attention paid by the Department
of Mineral Resources to enforcing improvement in the
design and application of safety standards in the industry.
Our operations have been much affected during the year
by this increased attention, and production stoppages as
a result of Section 54 safety notifications caused the loss
of some 30,000 Platinum ounces, or 5% of underground
production, in 2009. This is a high economic cost
specifically to the Company but no less to the nation,
due to the reduction in foreign exchange and tax receipts.
There is an argument for the Department of Mineral
Resources to sponsor and lead a co-operative process
with PGM producers and organised labour to agree
procedures to achieve a consistent application of
monitoring measures and remedies, without jeopardising
the pursuit of improved safety and reasonable economic
returns.
As it currently stands, Lonmin is a UK-domiciled
company with the vast majority of its operating assets in
South Africa. Your Board has therefore concluded that
the location of executive management should reflect this
reality and accordingly has taken the decision to relocate
our operational headquarters and executive management
team from London to Johannesburg. We believe that this
will enhance day to day management and communications,
and performance improvements will flow from greater
efficiencies. The decision reflects our commitment to
South Africa and our willingness to continue to play
a full part in the national transformation process.
The Board’s key functions of management oversight,
strategic direction, decision making and corporate
governance will remain in London, where the majority of
Lonmin’s shareholders are located. Lonmin greatly values
its UK domicile and primary listing in London and will
continue to maintain a Board with the blend of
backgrounds, skills and experience required to provide
effective leadership appropriate for a FTSE100 company. www.lonmin.com 05
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Sivi’s insights to the political and social dimensions of our
South African business have been invaluable.
The Company’s Chief Financial Officer, Alan Ferguson,
has confirmed that he will not relocate to South Africa as
part of the relocation of our operational headquarters and
will therefore relinquish his position and resign from the
Board at a future date. Alan has committed to remain in
his present role and continue as a Board Director until
31 December 2010 at the earliest. We have commenced
a recruitment process for Alan’s successor, who will be
based in South Africa.
Outlook
PGM markets are likely to improve gradually in 2010,
supported by a slow steady recovery in the automotive
and industrial sectors. During that year, we anticipate that
Marikana mined production will grow, enabling us to
achieve sales of around 700,000 Platinum ounces.
In 2011, we expect to see the start of a more
significant upturn in PGM market demand, supported by
increased momentum in the automotive and industrial
sectors, with a more pronounced rebound in the following
year. In those years, we anticipate that our production will
increase steadily through the delivery of profitable ounces
so that, by 2013, we expect to produce sustainably
around 850,000 ounces of Platinum per annum from
Marikana, including the Pandora joint venture. This
anticipated production growth, and supporting capital
investment, is subject to market conditions.
Current stresses notwithstanding, we have the utmost
confidence in the long term quality of Lonmin’s asset
base and the robust long term fundamentals of PGM
markets. Looking further ahead, our Akanani and
Limpopo properties will provide us with the optionality to
supplement our short to medium growth from Marikana.
Dividend
Despite our confidence in the future and the measures
being taken by management to improve the health of the
business, our profitability and cash flows remain under
pressure. Consequently, given our continuing focus on
cash conservation and balance sheet management, the
Board continues to take a conservative but appropriate
stance towards the distribution of dividends. The Board
has therefore taken the decision not to declare a final
dividend for the 2009 financial year. This follows the
Board’s decision to pass the final dividend for the 2008
financial year and the interim dividend for the 2009
financial year.
The Board will keep the matter of dividend
distributions under constant review and will resume
payments as soon as conditions allow. Our policy
remains that dividend distributions will be based on the
reported earnings for the year, but take into account the
projected cash requirements of the business.
Employees
Finally, I would like to thank all Lonmin employees for
their commitment and dedication, without which the
important changes achieved during the year would not
have been possible.
Roger Phillimore
Chairman
13 November 2009
Incwala Resources
During the year, discussions commenced regarding the
future of Incwala Resources (Pty) Ltd, (Incwala), our Black
Economic Empowerment partner. These discussions are
on-going and involve Lonmin, the Historically Disadvantaged
South African (HDSA) shareholders of Incwala and the
HDSAs’ providers of finance. We will update the market
on these discussions, once they have been fully
concluded. In pursuing these discussions, our objective is
to ensure that Lonmin has a relationship of mutual trust
with its partner and that its partner has both leadership
capacity and financial independence without further
recourse to Lonmin’s balance sheet.
Board Changes
At our 2009 AGM on 29 January 2009, Sir John Craven
retired as a Non-executive Director and Chairman of the
Board. John was Chairman for some twelve years and
we are extremely grateful to him for his ingenuity, strong
leadership and wise counsel which contributed so much
to the transformation of Lonmin from a highly-leveraged
diverse conglomerate into the third largest Platinum
producer in the world. As a measure of this, it is
noteworthy that despite the market upsets at the beginning
of the year, the market capitalisation of Lonmin when he
retired was some ten times greater than when he first
joined the Board.
We also bid a grateful farewell to Peter Godsoe who,
after nine years on the Board, has decided not to seek
re-election as a director. Lonmin has benefited
handsomely from Peter’s knowledge, experience and
ability to identify the keystone of an issue and the logic
of its resolution.
On 4 June 2009, the Board appointed Jonathan
Leslie as a Non-executive director. Jonathan has many
years’ experience of the mining industry at both
operational and executive levels, as well as a strong
knowledge of the business landscape in South Africa.
On 16 October 2009, we announced that Dr Sivi
Gounden had resigned as a Non-executive director, in light
of the significant time commitments associated with his
other business interests. We are extremely grateful to Sivi
for his contribution to the Company over the last four years.
Roger Phillimore
Chairman
“We have the utmost conﬁdence in the long term quality of
Lonmin’s asset base and the robust long term fundamentals
of PGM markets.”
Roger Phillimore
