 04
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
Dear Shareholders
Overview of the year
I am delighted to report that our business performed 
well in 2010. The Company met its production and 
sales forecasts, returned to profitability and reinstated 
the payment of dividends. While our mining and
concentrating activities performed extremely well,
problems encountered with the Number One furnace
were again disappointing and contributed to higher than
expected costs and significant working capital
movements with negative cash flow implications. 
We operate in a challenging inflationary environment in
South Africa compounded by a further strengthening of
the Rand against the US Dollar. The negative effects on our
margins, however, have been outweighed by higher dollar
Platinum Group Metal (PGM) prices throughout the year.
The PGM market fundamentals have effectively
remained in balance during the year although with a
modestly stronger underpinning. Recovery has been slow
but steady in the automotive market supported by
continuing strong investment demand through Exchange
Traded Funds (ETF) and relatively steady platinum
jewellery demand. Jewellery demand is historically more
price elastic but is increasingly driven by demand in China,
much boosted by the rapidly expanding middle class.
Supply side growth has remained limited given both the
constraints on capital and the pressure on margins that
the industry has experienced over the last two years.
We have met our key operational targets and this
performance reflects the progressive turnaround in our
business:
• Safety: Performance continues to improve, but there
is much still to be achieved;
• Higher output from underground operations: Metal-in-
concentrate is up from 2009’s level of 618,000 to
691,000 Platinum ounces due to an increase in
tonnes mined, grade improvements and much
improved recoveries in the concentrators – up from
81.0% to 84.8%;
• Ore reserve development: A significant increase – up
32% to 2.7 million centares;
• Platinum sales: Sales were 6,000 ounces above our
market guidance of 700,000 Platinum sales ounces;
• Costs: Rand gross operating costs were impacted by
the unexpected toll refining charges and furnace
rebuild costs, and the inflationary environment we
work in. Despite this our unit costs only increased by
2%, a pleasing result; and
• Capital Expenditure: Guidance of investing up to 
$270 million was achieved with significant spend being
allocated to development at K4, Saffy and Hossy.
The Number One furnace however experienced fresh
difficulties again this year, with a matte run out at the end
of the first half which was exacerbated by a further run out
on restart. Considerable attention is being given to
reconfiguring the furnace in its current rebuild and to
managing the inherent risk of having a single furnace to
meet all our current production needs. Earlier this year, we
announced that we would build additional smelting
capacity and this is intended to reduce significantly, if not
eliminate, this risk. In the meantime we were able to meet
our customer needs by using our pyromet furnaces and
by toll refining some concentrate.
Ian Farmer, our Chief Executive, moved his base to
South Africa in January 2010 and as the year comes to 
a close I can report that we have successfully completed
the transfer of all London based operational and
management roles to Johannesburg. We are already
seeing benefits from this decision. 
Much has been achieved in the past two years. 
The health of our operations has been largely restored 
and we can now look forward to improving on the work
practices and disciplines that have been introduced into
our operations, in order to drive efficiency and productivity.
We will also continue to give concerted attention to our
safety performance which must be further improved. 
The imperatives of growth and transformation in South
Africa 
Virtually all Lonmin’s operating assets reside in South Africa
while only some 7.4% of our shares are held there, with the
balance held internationally. Lonmin has a premium listing
in London, with a secondary listing in Johannesburg.
Our commitment to ensuring that Lonmin’s South
African operations meet the highest standards of good
corporate citizenship remains undimmed despite the
emergence of new challenges during the year. As the
South African Government seeks to reverse the wrongs 
of the apartheid system, and normalise wealth distribution
in the country, it has introduced legislation designed to
accelerate transformation. Given the mining industry’s
historic dominance and its economic and social impact, it
has understandably been a focal point for change initiatives.
During the year the Government promulgated a revised
Mining Charter which, together with a Balanced Scorecard,
defines the actions required by companies wishing to 
retain their licence to operate. The Board has constituted a
Transformation Committee under the chairmanship of Cyril
Ramaphosa to support the many, complex and sometimes
costly initiatives which management must drive in order 
to achieve acceptable progress towards meeting these
transformational requirements. These range across every
aspect of our operations, from Historically Disadvantaged
South African (HDSA) equity ownership levels through to
procurement and training. We will report each year on our
progress towards these goals which, for the most part,
must be achieved by 2014. It is to be hoped that the sheer
scale of these changes for the mining industry as a whole,
at a time when operating margins, at least in the platinum
sector, are less than generous, will not stifle the growth
imperative on which the longer term economic prosperity 
of South Africa crucially depends. It is an uncomfortable
fact that recently South Africa’s mining industry has
experienced virtually no growth whilst internationally the
mining industry has grown annually. Recognition of the need
to restore South Africa’s attractiveness to international mining
investors was fundamental to the conclusions which emerged
from the work of the tripartite Mining Industry Growth,
Development and Employment Task Team (MIGDETT)
exercise which concluded its work during the year. 
Mention must also be made of the rather vocal calls 
for nationalisation of the mining industry. These do little 
for investor confidence, but we are encouraged by the
steadfast position that key government ministers, senior
leaders within the ANC, and other industry participants
such as the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM), have
taken in arguing the weaknesses and dangers for South
Africa’s economy of a policy of nationalisation.
Mining has always been a highly capital intensive
business, and our operations are no exception. Access 
to equity, and indeed the international debt markets, is of
fundamental importance to the achievement of Lonmin’s
potential. The $458 million Rights Issue last year, and the
$229 million equity placement earlier in the year under
review effectively represented a large foreign direct
investment in South Africa. Our shareholders’ and bankers’
willingness to support Lonmin in its capital expenditure
programmes and in helping Shanduka Resources
(Proprietary) Limited (Shanduka) fund its investment in
Incwala Resources (Pty) Ltd (Incwala), depend on their 05 www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
confidence in our security of tenure, primarily of our New
Order Mining Licences but, underlying that, of our mineral
rights. I am happy to report that a measure of uncertainty
in the latter regard was speedily resolved during the year
with the active co-operation of the Department of Mineral
Resources (DMR). There remains only a private challenge
to our right to mine associated minerals over a small part
of our property, and we are determined to do everything
possible to preserve that right.
Incwala and Shanduka
During the year we provided significant funding for
Shanduka to acquire Incwala shares from a number of
counterparties, including certain of the original HDSA
shareholders. Shanduka now holds interests directly and
indirectly which represent in aggregate 50.03% of the
shares of Incwala, an outcome which simplifies the
ownership structure. 
Operating successfully in South Africa today 
requires a Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) partner
that can actively add value. Meeting South Africa’s
transformational aspirations, addressing productivity
challenges in partnership with unions and investing in
growth with assurance of mining right security, all require
that the relationships with our many stakeholders operate
effectively. The Board believes that Shanduka as the
majority shareholder in Incwala has a proven track record
of investing in the natural resources sector, strong
leadership qualities, and has demonstrated the financial
capacity to participate in transactions together with
Lonmin. The Board therefore considers that a strong
partnership with Shanduka will serve Lonmin well. Our
commitment to the importance of this partnership is
evidenced by Cyril Ramaphosa joining the Lonmin Board
and by Shanduka’s representatives attending the Lonmin
Executive Committee meetings.
Against this background the Board decided that robust
funding would be required for the new BEE structure, in
order to secure the long term future and stability of
Incwala. It became clear that the best way of this being
achieved would be with funding from Lonmin and we
agreed to provide Shanduka with a $304 million five year
loan, secured on Shanduka’s interest in Incwala, with
Shanduka making an equity contribution of R300 million.
In line with the Board’s policy to maintain an appropriate
capital structure Lonmin financed this funding through a
combination of the net proceeds from a Placing to
institutional investors which raised £160 million ($229 million),
and from Lonmin’s own financial resources. I place on
record Lonmin’s appreciation of the support provided in
this placing by our larger shareholders, including Xstrata.
The South African Minister of Mineral Resources 
and the DMR acknowledged Lonmin’s support for the
transaction and endorsed it as a constructive contribution
to the long term financial stability of our BEE structure. 
Role and effectiveness of the Board
We are cognisant of the best practice recommendations of
the UK Corporate Governance Code, and comply with these
wherever we believe they confer competitive advantage.
The dynamic nature of the Board means that there is a
continual evolution of its role, but our guiding principle has
always been that all policy decisions affecting the delivery
of value to shareholders are reserved to the Directors, whose
key responsibilities are to participate fully in devising the
Company’s strategy, oversee the delivery of agreed
strategic objectives and ensure that risk is fully considered
and managed. When debating such issues I ensure that
comprehensive and relevant information is provided on a
timely basis, that sufficient time is available for full and
robust discussion and that there are opportunities to meet
the relevant operational executives. Clearly, the collective
blend of skills, experience, knowledge and independence
of thought of the Board members is crucial to that debate.
Significant effort has been devoted to building a cohesive
Board drawn from a diverse range of backgrounds, all of
whose members are afforded every opportunity to develop
a deep understanding of the business and who are
encouraged to contribute to our deliberations. As assurance
of the effectiveness of our Board, its Committees and their
respective processes, we have this year for the first time
employed an external facilitator to manage the annual
review. The results have been encouraging, with a number
of opportunities for incremental improvement identified and
the Board confirmed as being effective, as discussed more
fully in Section 2 of the Directors’ Report. The results of
this review will also inform our Board succession planning,
as we need to keep under review how best to equip
“OUR BUSINESS PERFORMED WELL IN 2010 AND MET
ITS PRODUCTION AND SALES FORECASTS, RETURNED
TO PROFITABILITY AND REINSTATED THE PAYMENT 
OF DIVIDENDS.”
Roger Phillimore
Chairman 06
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER (continued)
ourselves to meet the challenges of the medium and
longer terms. The Board recognises that its primary
accountability is to shareholders, and we have decided to
accede to the new best practice recommendation and
submit all directors for re-election on an annual basis,
from the 2011 AGM onwards.
We recognise fully that there could be a perception that
the Lonmin directorate may become somewhat remote
from the operations of the business in South Africa. We
regard it as truly important that the Board retains its seat
and prime governance functions in London, and that our
UK, and international, investors and financiers continue 
to be served at the highest level. However the diversity 
of our directorate, its significant collective South African
knowledge and experience, the fact that we have two
major meetings in South Africa each year and my own
and my colleagues’ frequent visits satisfy us that we will
continue to be able, as a Board, to meet fully our
oversight and governance obligations. 
Board changes
I am delighted to welcome to the Board Dr Len Konar 
and Cyril Ramaphosa who joined us during the year as
Non-executive Directors of the Company. Len is a highly
respected businessman in South Africa and his professional
contribution to the development of Lonmin will be important.
Cyril’s breadth of experience and wise counsel will be vital
in helping Lonmin build on its operational capacity in South
Africa and to fulfil its strategic transformational objectives. 
I also look forward to Mahomed Seedat, currently 
our Chief Operating Officer, joining the Board as a Non-
executive Director on 1 January 2011. Mahomed’s
judgement and leadership have been invaluable as we have
restored the operational health of the business and he will
remain in his executive position until the end of 2010. 
I am also pleased to welcome Simon Scott who 
was appointed to the Board as an Executive Director 
on 27 September 2010 and will assume his role as Chief
Financial Officer on 15 November 2010. Simon brings
both local knowledge and relevant experience of financial
management gained at senior levels of the South African
platinum mining industry. We look forward to the
substantial contribution he will make to the continuing
development of Lonmin in years to come. 
The Board would also like to acknowledge the
significant role which Alan Ferguson has played and will
continue to play until his departure on 31 December 2010.
This is a very different Company from the one he joined
three and a half years ago and a large part of the credit 
for this transformation should go to him. He will leave 
with our gratitude and best wishes. 
Outlook
We are confident that PGM markets will sustain the
improvements already seen, and have the potential to
advance further. Recovery in western automotive markets
and rapid growth in China will underpin auto catalyst
demand. A new factor of considerable potential is the
demand for catalysts for off-road vehicles. Platinum
jewellery demand, increasingly favoured in the Far East,
will be supported inter alia by the recent narrowing of the
spread between the gold and platinum prices. We remain
of the view that production increases by the South African
PGM industry over the next few years will remain modest.
We intend to build on the strong operational
performance of 2010 and anticipate that production at
Marikana including our share of the Pandora joint venture
will grow to enable us to achieve Platinum sales of around
750,000 ounces in 2011. Our main challenge will be
containing costs in the face of inflationary pressures in 
the mining industry and the largest component of our cost
is labour. Given this, we anticipate unit cost will increase 
by less than 8% on the assumption that we achieve a
settlement with the NUM in line with that achieved by 
our two larger competitors.
Our capital spend will rise this year to some $380 million.
This is higher than our previous guidance of $300-350 million
due to a decision to invest in the new furnace ($38 million
in 2011) and tailings treatment plants ($24 million in 2011),
neither of which were within the original guidance. The
furnace spend is essential as a risk mitigation in the short
term and to ensure there is adequate capacity in the
longer term. The tailings treatment project is an exciting one
as these new plants will recover PGMs from our chrome
depleted UG2 tailings. Over the next three years we expect
to spend c.$75 million on these plants, and as a result 
to improve our concentrator recoveries from 2012 onwards
at our UG2 plants by around 2%, which based on today’s
volumes represents around 25,000 PGM ounces per
annum. 
We remain on track to produce around 850,000
Platinum ounces by 2013 from our Marikana operations,
including our share of the Pandora joint venture, with
growth coming from Hossy, Saffy and K4. In addition to
Marikana, we still have options for growth at Limpopo and
Akanani and we will be turning our attention to these
matters in the coming year. The pace at which investment
into growth projects can be applied will be impacted by
the capital requirements and cash generating capabilities
of our existing operating assets as well as long term
demand trends for our products. 
Dividend
Given the improved financial performance of the business,
its projected cash requirements and current trading
conditions the Board has decided to resume the payment
of dividends. In coming to this decision the Board has
revised its dividend policy.
Our new policy is to recommend each year an
ordinary final dividend at a rate which the Board expects
can at least be maintained in subsequent years. This
annual dividend would be announced after the year end
and would be supplemented by a special final dividend in
years when our reported earnings for the previous year,
and our projected cash requirements, allow. Dividends 
will therefore be paid only once a year.
In implementing this new policy in a year which
produced net earnings (after minorities) of $112 million
(equivalent to 56.9 cents per share), the Board has given
consideration to the fact that operating margins are
currently still relatively low, our net debt at year end was
$375 million and that the capital expenditure requirements
of the business are considerable. 
The dividend of 15 US cents per share is recommended
as the ordinary final dividend for the year, to be paid to
shareholders on the registers at the close of business on
14 January 2011, subject to approval by shareholders at
the Annual General Meeting on 27 January 2011. 
Employees
Finally, I extend warm thanks to all Lonmin employees and
contractors. Their continued hard work and commitment
has enabled us to deliver a rewarding set of operational
and financial results, and the prospect of continuing
improvement.
Roger Phillimore
Chairman
12 November 2010
