 07 www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
Dear Shareholder,
1. Delivering Today
I am pleased to report that we have produced a very
encouraging set of results whilst continuing to improve
on our safety record. These results mark the end of
the two year period we set ourselves in 2008 to
restore the operational health of our business and
demonstrate the significant progress we have made 
in that time. 
We achieved Platinum sales of 706,000 ounces
from our Marikana operations, ahead of sales guidance
of 700,000 ounces. The problems we encountered
with the Number One furnace again this year were
disappointing and meant that we had to toll refine and
sell some part processed material. This was the best
commercial option for the business.
Encouragingly metal in concentrate was 694,000
Platinum ounces, well ahead of 663,000 Platinum
ounces delivered last year, whilst the mines hoisted
some 700,000 Platinum ounces as ore stocks were
built up. This improvement came about through an
increase in underground tonnes hoisted, better grades
and significantly improved recoveries, all of which
more than offset the impact of closing Limpopo and
our UG2 opencast pits in 2009. 
At the same time, we continued to make
significant progress with our development of ore
reserves, a crucial indicator of the health of our mining
operations. 
Although we operated in an environment with
inflationary pressures on key inputs such as wages
and electricity, our Rand unit costs per PGM ounce
produced only increased by 2%, much lower than
South African PPI reflecting productivity improvements.
I believe we can now put behind us the notion 
that Lonmin is not on top of its operational game. 
Of course we will still have issues as this is, and will
always be, a very challenging business. These results
however, could not have been delivered without a
management team, and an emerging culture, in 
which matters are identified and dealt with in a timely,
constructive and professional manner and where 
Key Performance Indicators are tracked and
monitored on a regular basis. 
We have reiterated our production target of
850,000 Platinum ounces by 2013 from our Marikana
operations including our share of Pandora joint
venture, with replacement and growth ounces being
generated from Hossy, Saffy and K4.
Safety
Progress with our LTIFR
Safety is fundamental in everything we do and it will
always be at the forefront of our minds. We have
worked hard at addressing the behavioural and
cultural issues which are fundamental to a good safety
performance. This includes focusing on upgrading our
safe production training programmes and increasing
safe behaviour observations. We have also improved
our procedures for compiling safety data. 
Our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)
improved marginally, from the end of the 2009
financial year to 5.87 per million man hours worked,
but sadly we suffered three fatalities, two as a result 
of fall-of-ground incidents and one from a tramming
incident. We extend our sincere condolences to 
the families and friends of our late colleagues 
Miss Betty Moekwa, Mr Bavuyise Bala and 
Mr Siyabonga Tomose. 
We lost fewer tonnes this year from Section 54
stoppages as the frequency and length of the stoppages
decreased and the manner in which they are applied
became more pragmatic. This reflects the collaborative
relationship we have developed with our employees
and the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) on
safety matters, and the emphasis we have been
placing on consistent application of high safety
standards in all our operations.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
“THESE RESULTS COULD NOT HAVE BEEN DELIVERED
WITHOUT A MANAGEMENT TEAM AND AN EMERGING
CULTURE IN WHICH MATTERS ARE IDENTIFIED AND
DEALT WITH IN A TIMELY, CONSTRUCTIVE AND
PROFESSIONAL MANNER.” Ian Farmer
Chief Executive Officer 08
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (continued)
Mining 
Our Mining Division’s performance continued to
improve throughout the year, with quarter four being
very strong. The results reflect the division’s
commendable turnaround. Mining management
throughout the year placed a strong emphasis on
quality of mining and improving mining discipline and 
it has achieved this by introducing processes,
procedures and training to support these initiatives.
The success of these programmes is reflected in
the gradual increase in momentum we have seen
throughout the year. Indeed, whilst production in the
first half of the year was adversely impacted by the
Christmas holidays and a fatal accident Section 54
related stoppage at K3, the second half showed a
marked increase with underground production
reaching 5.8 million tonnes compared to 5.2 million
tonnes in the first half.
We have agreed a new working calendar with our
employees and unions for the forthcoming holiday
season which should help improve productivity and
provide for a good Christmas break for our mining
employees.
We have also streamlined the reporting in the
Mining Division into a four unit structure and removed
excess reporting levels, to enable management to be
as close to the operations as possible. We will now
report the output from these four mines separately in
our Production Report.
Ore reserves
The Marikana operations have immediately available
ore reserves of 2.7 million centares as at the end of
the 2010 financial year. This is a 32% increase from
the 2.0 million centares that were available at the end
of 2009 and it allows us to support future production
and forecast our short term output with greater
confidence. 
If there is one statistic which for me best illustrates
the scale of the turnaround that has been achieved in
the last two years it’s the fact that available ore
reserves are over 61% higher than they were at the
end of 2008.
Progress made with Hossy
Hossy’s production profile and grade has improved
during the year and we have decided to continue with
the fully mechanised proof of concept project. The
average monthly production has ramped up to 67,000
tonnes per month in 2010, a significant increase from
2009 when it averaged 56,000, whilst the grade has
improved from 4.38 to 4.60 grammes per tonne.
Two new mining half levels, defined as quadrants in a
mechanised shaft, came on stream in the first half of
this year bringing the total number of quadrants being
mined to six.
The key drivers to Hossy’s improvements have
been enhancements to the mining layout and
infrastructure and equipment upgrades. We have also
kept up our development and training initiatives in
core areas. This is important as there is a general
shortage of people with mechanised experience in 
the industry and this will remain a key area of focus. 
We retain our target of achieving productivity of
2,200 square metres per month per suite of
equipment by the end of 2011 financial year in fully
developed quadrants. 
Mining capital projects
We have continued to make good progress with 
the capital development at Hossy, Saffy, K4, and 
the declines at K3 and Rowland shafts, all of which
are essential to our medium term production. 
While the key focus for the team is delivery on time and
budget, the Capital team, under the leadership of Frank
Russo-Bello, are examining ways of reducing capital costs
and improving project productivity. Frank is also leading a
team that is looking at further opportunities to optimise
our life of mine extraction strategy.
Processing
The Process Division produced excellent results during the
year with significant recovery improvements being recorded. 
Of particular note were the much improved recoveries
at the concentrators which averaged 84.7% throughout
the year. This represents a significant 4.9% points
improvement over 2009. The success of our concentrator
optimisation programme, which we mention in the case
study on page 40, could only have been achieved through
the excellent teamwork and commitment of the employees
in this part of our operations led by Natascha Viljoen.
The refineries also performed very well this year, again
reflecting the discipline exercised by the teams at these
plants in following strict processes aided by excellent
technical support and plant maintenance programmes.
Number One furnace
In 2010 the Number One furnace was down for almost
fourteen weeks due to scheduled maintenance and as 
a result of the double run out experienced in March and
May this year. This necessitated toll refining and selling
part processed material as the backlog was too big to
hold in stock. The quantum refined by third parties
amounted to some 75,000 Platinum ounces and this had 
an impact on costs as discussed elsewhere.
The Number One furnace was taken down again 
at the end of October 2010 for a scheduled rebuild. This
is running to plan and we expect it to be re-commissioned
in December 2010. Whilst the Number One furnace is
down, the three pyromet furnaces will operate as usual
and we will continue to toll refine a limited amount of
metal-in-concentrate until the furnace is fully operational
again. We recognise and share the concerns of our
investors about the reliability of this vessel, but I believe
we have a team who understand the issues very well. 
We continue to make modifications to the furnace
designed to reduce disruption risk and this gives us
confidence, tempered with realism, for the future.
The decision was taken to add more back up capacity
and work has commenced on building the new 10MW
pyromet furnace which is planned to come into production
in quarter three 2012 at a capital cost of some R350 million.
Whilst any disruption to the Number One furnace is
always disappointing, the value impact of such an event is
not material to the long term value of Lonmin. As a result,
we do not intend to announce any future furnace
incidents unless they impact our market guidance.
Tailings projects
Earlier in the year, we entered into arrangements with
Xstrata-Merafe Chrome Venture and ChromTech to
construct chrome recovery plants which will treat tailings
from our UG2 concentrators. This initiative will generate
additional revenue of some $20-30 million per annum with
effect from 2012, dependant on the chrome price. The
impact on 2011 will be approximately $10 million. In
addition, we have commenced an investment programme
of around some $75 million to build tailings treatment
plants which when fully operational will improve our UG2
concentrator recoveries by some 2% from 2012 onwards,
equivalent when fully commissioned to approximately
25,000 PGM ounces annually.
People focus
Motivating and developing our people is a key contributor
to achieving consistent production. We continued to
introduce a number of employee relations initiatives 
designed to promote a safe performance driven culture. These are supported by regular and improved
communication between management and employees.
We have also rolled out a programme to standardise and
align the production reward system across all our
operations.
BEE partnership restructured
We are delighted to have played our part in helping
secure the future of Incwala, our BEE partner. It is
important that we have a strong BEE partner, and we
welcome Shanduka as Incwala’s majority shareholder. 
The terms of the funding provided to Shanduka,
to help facilitate this transaction, provide for Lonmin to
receive a fair commercial return. In addition, in the
event that there is significant future value created for
Shanduka through its Incwala shareholding, the terms
of the funding provide that a proportion of such
incremental value uplift will be shared with Lonmin.
This was not available to Lonmin under the original
Incwala transaction in 2004.
Shanduka has representation on our Executive
Committee which meets every month to consider
operational and strategic issues, and Cyril Ramaphosa
has joined the Lonmin Board. This partnership will
enable us to work closely together as we explore new
initiatives and execute our transformational objectives.
We raised £160 million of fresh capital to part fund
the loan to Shanduka and I would like to thank our
shareholders for their support. 
Social and Labour Plans
Our communities and our employees are very important
stakeholders. This year we have spent R35 million 
on community projects and R15 million on converting
five hostel blocks into married and single room
accommodation for our employees. There is still much
more work to be done in both these areas and we have
budgeted to invest some R42 million in 2011 on
community projects and R100 million per annum for the
next three years on our hostel conversion programme. 
The education and training of our employees is
another key area and we continue to have employees
enrolling in the Adult Based Education Training (ABET)
adult learning scheme. Our total training budget for
2011 amounts to some R208 million, which includes
the provision of bursaries to some 43 full time university
students of which 37 are Historically Disadvantaged
South Africans (HDSAs) and 21 are female.
Our management payroll now includes 43%
HDSAs and these are all merit based appointments. 
Sustainability
Transformation is an essential area of business 
in South Africa today and we are making steady
progress. More of the work that we have done in 
this area is covered on pages 36 to 54 of this report
and is also reported on in detail in our Sustainable
Development Report on our website.
Seamless transfer of London operations to
Johannesburg
The move of all London based operational and
management roles to South Africa is now largely
complete. The transfer of these operations has run
smoothly under the leadership of Alan Ferguson and
we go into 2011 with all these functions based in South
Africa. We will be sad to bid farewell to many of our
London colleagues who will not be relocating, but we
welcome our new team members. It is already clear
that placing the Executive Directors closer to the
operations will generate many benefits some of 
which have already started to come through. 
2 Industry wide challenges and successes
There are a number of challenges faced by the South
African mining industry, some of which received
significant publicity during the year.
The Revised Mining Charter
It was pleasing to note that a collaborative approach
was adopted with the review of the Mining Charter
which was released in early September 2010. Lonmin,
along with other participants in the mining industry,
was involved through the South African Chamber of
Mines. The Revised Mining Charter has brought clarity
in some areas and has re-oriented 2014 goals to take
into account the experience of the last five years.
Concern has however been expressed by industry
participants and international investors regarding the
degree of subjectivity that still remains, as well as the
powers granted to the Minister of Mineral Resources
to unilaterally amend the Charter. In this context,
concern has been expressed that companies’ security
of tenure over their operations may be unfairly
compromised.
We cannot understate the challenge the industry
generally, and certainly Lonmin, faces in achieving
some of the 2014 goals within the timeframe
provided. Whilst investors have factored in the
imperative for transformation there is a cost in 
terms of time, effort and money associated with
implementing social transformation which is not easily
quantifiable but nonetheless exists. As South Africa
positions itself to become globally competitive, and 
an attractive destination for inward investment, these
are issues which cannot be ignored especially if the
industry is to contribute to South Africa’s well being 
to the full extent of its potential.
During 2011 we will be reviewing our Social and
Labour Plans in the light of the revised Mining Charter
and we will report annually on progress against these
plans. 
Associated Minerals 
In May 2009 we discovered that we had an issue
regarding our right to dispose of associated minerals
(i.e. non PGM metals which are found in our ore body
and which must be mined and processed together
with the PGMs) when Keysha Investments 220
(Proprietary) Limited (Keysha) applied for a prospecting
right over a small part of our property. In our view it is
illogical and wrong that a prospecting right can be
granted over an ore body where mining is already
taking place, and where that company has in good
faith converted its old order rights into new order
mining rights. The spirit and intention of the
conversion process was intended to leave title holders
in the same position after conversion as before. 
After taking comprehensive legal advice we
appealed against both the application for and the
subsequent award of the prospecting right. We also
filed section 102 applications to regularise the position
in respect of the balance of our property that was
unaffected by the Keysha prospecting right. On 4 August
2010 the DMR issued us with a notice suspending our
ability to sell all associated minerals across our business.
We announced these facts to the market which
generated significant media attention for both Lonmin
and the wider South African mining industry. Shortly
thereafter the Section 102s were all approved
confirming Lonmin’s right to extract and sell all
associated minerals. The issue with regard to the
Keysha prospecting right remains outstanding. We
await the outcome of our appeal and we will take the
matter to judicial review if necessary.
09 www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
2010 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc 10
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (continued)
Skills Shortage 
Skills shortages remain an issue. The scarcity of
experienced people nationally and globally means that
the industry is always chasing talent and there is an
insufficient skills pipeline to address this. This impacts
mainly on our mining operations, particularly at our
mechanised Hossy shaft. We have developed a new
training strategy for the business whereby we will
refocus our training budget on better value adding
initiatives that will help to address these challenges.
Inflationary Pressures and Rand Strength
While South Africa has reported declining consumer
price inflation during 2010, down to levels of around
3.5%, the mining sector has experienced significant
inflationary pressures, driven by the high cost of inputs
such as labour (up c.8-10%) and power (up c.26%).
As well as impacting on working cost, this also
impacts on capital investment. 
These pressures allied to the strength of the Rand
has meant that margins and the resulting free cash
flow have been held back. This means as a business
we have to strive to deliver more output from the
same input and this will be a major area of focus 
as we go into 2011. 
3 Anticipating tomorrow: the key areas of focus
Safety
We will maintain our focus on safety particularly around
training and employee behaviour as we continue our
journey to zero harm.
Productivity
We have worked hard to restore the health of our
Marikana operations in the past two years and we will
continue to monitor vigilantly the key operational
metrics of this business. Our focus on available ore
reserve development will remain undiminished.
Our challenge for next year is however subtly
different from that faced in 2009 and 2010. Whilst we
have been effective in 2010, we are not producing as
efficiently as we can and 2011 will be a year when we
will seek to drive productivity in our operations. This is
vitally important given the inflationary pressures we will
face as we go into 2011 and our objective of moving
back down the relative cost curve. Our key focus will
thereforebeon driving productivity. 
We will look at a number of areas:
Day to day productivity
We are turning our attention to areas where we can
improve our daily productivity. This is the one area
where we can see immediate flow through to our
production. We have also suffered historically from 
a shortage of developed ore reserves, but we are 
now well positioned. We will focus on mining our
shafts efficiently, considering optimisation of half levels
as well as improving metrics such as advance per
blast. Importantly, we will build on the momentum 
we have achieved in 2010 and the partnership we
have built with our employees to support us in this
challenge. This will be done through a range of
measures including appropriate bonus arrangements
and a new working calendar.
Structural issues
There are some areas which are more difficult to
change immediately as they are structural in nature.
These include declining production from our small
older shafts as they approach the end of their working
lives, the pace at which Hossy and Saffy will move
towards full capacity and the timing of K4 coming on
stream. Initially of course the new ounces from K4 will
be relatively expensive but the cost per ounce will
decrease as production ramps up.
Rebuilding the Number One furnace and bringing the
new furnace into production on time and on budget are
the other major areas of focus. 
Investing in the future
2011
Capital expenditure at around $380 million is above our
previous guidance due to the inclusion of the new furnace
as well as the tailings treatment initiatives. We will, however,
continue to monitor affordability and development capital
will always take priority. The majority of our capital spend
will be predominantly Rand based and will therefore be
impacted by exchange rate movements.
2011 and beyond
We will start to focus on how we wish to achieve 26%
BEE ownership in our operations by 2014. Currently we
have 18% BEE ownership for Marikana and Limpopo and
26% for Akanani. We see a broad based structure as
optimal, but we will be reviewing our options and ensuring
we protect our shareholders’ interests. 
Whilst Limpopo remains on care and maintenance, 
we are exploring opportunities available to us to resume
operations as well as working with other parties to examine
what possibilities we have to develop this asset further. 
4 Outlook
Guidance
Our operations have turned a corner and 2011 will be the
next important step towards achieving our sales target of
850,000 Platinum ounces by 2013. We expect to continue
to gain momentum whilst maintaining the quality of our
production. We anticipate sales of 750,000 Platinum
ounces in 2011 with additional production coming from
Hossy, Saffy, K3 and opencast whilst output from our
Newman shaft is starting to decline. 
Despite the significant inflationary pressures our
operations will face, we expect to maintain cost control by
driving productivity and limiting the increase in cost per
ounce. Given this we anticipate that unit cost will increase
by less than 8% on the assumption that we achieve a
settlement with the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM)
in line with that achieved by our two larger competitors. 
As already reported, our capex guidance is 
c.$380 million. Most of the mining capital spend will 
be on bringing K4 into production, finalising the capital
footprints in Hossy and Saffy and extending the mine 
lives of K3 and Rowland.
Beyond 2013
We also have to start turning our minds to our other
assets and profitable growth, as a business, beyond
850,000 Platinum ounces. Our initial focus for growth
beyond 2013 will be on the assets we already have in our
portfolio such as Akanani, Limpopo and Pandora and of
course Marikana. We will provide direction on the
outcome of our review of these assets and any other
potential options we may identify as appropriate. 
5 Employees’ contribution
Our business relies on the dedication and support of our
employees, contractors and community members. In a
year when we have completed the restoration of our
operations back to good health I would like to thank 
each and every one of them, for their contribution and
hard work. 
Ian Farmer
Chief Executive Officer
12 November 2010 11 www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
“OUR TEAM HAS BEEN ACHIEVING ITS PRODUCTION
TARGETS WORKING IN A SAFE AND EFFICIENT
MANNER.”
ITHUMULENG PHOSOKO – SHIFT SUPERVISOR, SHAFT 1B UG2
1B Shaft is one of the shafts we have in Marikana which has access to both
the Merensky and UG2 reefs. Two years ago we took the decision to change
the mining method at this shaft from fully mechanised to hybrid mining with
the ultimate intention of converting the whole shaft to conventional mining. 
Ithumuleng is one of our Shift Supervisors in the 1B UG2 section of the
mine, where the development and stoping are currently both mechanised.
From a young age, Ithumuleng was interested in geological features and 
their composition and decided to pursue a career in mining. She has a 
BSC in Mining from the University of Witwatersrand, Johannesburg. While
completing her studies, she joined Lonmin as a graduate trainee. She has
since satisfied the requirements for both her blasting and shift supervisor
certificates. She has worked in both the stoping and development aspects
of mining.
Ithumuleng has a team of 30 people who work with her. Her mine shifts
mined 189,000 tonnes of ore exceeding its budget by 2.8% for the year to
30 September 2010. She believes that good two way communication with
her team is important and leads to greater team cohesiveness and ultimately
safe and efficient production. 
CASE STUDY: SHAFT 1B UG2
