 [ 04 ]
Chairman’s Letter
Dear Fellow Shareholder,
I am pleased to be able to report that Lonmin has delivered a solid operational
and financial performance for 2011. While production failed to meet our original
expectations, the outturn was nevertheless satisfactory and increased sales of refined
metal allowed your Company to report a worthwhile increase in profitability. Net
earnings attributable to equity shareholders grew from $112 million to $273 million.
Markets, Operations and Costs
Our 2011 financial year was hallmarked by the instability of world economies.
Lacklustre economic growth, coupled with the increasing burden of undigested
debt, and the devastating earthquake in Japan all contributed to the substantial
volatility and subsequent weakness in Platinum Group Metals (PGMs) prices and in
our core currencies. Against that background, your Board’s adherence to a policy
of prudent balance sheet management was appropriate.
The two major operating challenges for your Company in 2011 were safety and labour
relations. Lonmin and its management remain absolutely committed to ensuring
the safety of our employees which is defined in our stated “Zero Harm” core value.
Very regrettably, during the year we experienced six fatalities at our mines. We have
subsequently reviewed and refocused our safety strategy and recent safety statistics
have shown a significant improvement. Constant vigilance remains the watchword.
Labour relations also presented challenges during the year with ten production
days lost because of an illegal strike at our Karee operations. This incident was 
the result of an internal union leadership dispute, not through any difference with
management. Nevertheless the incident had severe adverse consequences for a
large part of our workforce. We are determined to maintain a positive and
constructive relationship with our entire workforce. Community relationships have
also been challenging and considerable management effort is going into building 
a more effective rapport with community leaders. 
Cost increases have continued to be an issue, driven by inflationary factors
including wage increases and electricity, to mention just two, and by the costs 
of increasing production and development. Managing our cost performance will
remain a key area of focus for both management and Board in 2012.
Industry Challenges
The mining industry worldwide has experienced a growing number of external
challenges in recent months. Windfall gains in some commodities from the
explosive growth in China particularly, accompanied in some producing nations
elsewhere by poor standards of living and unemployment, have fanned the political
winds of change in resentment of perceived inequality. Governments are
increasingly being pressured to take action to retain a greater proportion of the
benefit of natural resources for local inhabitants. “Resource nationalism” is being
debated in many countries and some of the South African expressions of these
sentiments I discuss below. Responsible mining companies that operate according
to best international corporate social responsibility standards, as defined by the
International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), have a great deal to offer their
host nations. It is imperative that in considering resource nationalism an
appropriate balance is maintained between the distribution of the wealth that
mining companies are able to create and the competitive nature of the world that
they operate in.
Transformation and Growth Initiatives
We have consistently demonstrated our full support for the transformation initiative.
The word “transformation” can be read as shorthand for the process to change 
the old modus operandi of the South African mining industry to a new model
representative of the non-racial, inclusive, more equitable standards of the country
in a way that favours historically disadvantaged peoples without destroying the
economic competitiveness of the industry and indeed the country. We completely
endorse this objective and process, and you will see a report on our progress on
page 16. Determined action to meet targets established for employment equity,
procurement, training and Historically Disadvantaged South African (HDSA)
ownership will progressively transform our business and do much to address the
evils of poverty, unemployment and inequality. This approach is however clearly not
the same as that espoused by those who claim that nationalisation will achieve
these goals more speedily and effectively. While recognising that this is a matter for
the elected government to decide, we cannot subscribe to this view. It seems to us
at best debatable that South Africa can afford to acquire control of the mining
industry, and – if it did – whether the change of control would provide more efficient
operations, yielding greater benefits for employees and other stakeholders, while
still generating the capital necessary to fund the necessary investment in maintaining
let alone increasing production. It is an inescapable fact that there is a world shortage
of technical and managerial skills in the mining industry and it must be expected
that nationalisation would be seen as a major disincentive by many incumbents.
Similar considerations apply to the providers of capital, both domestic and foreign.
“Our strategy is to
continue to invest in
capacity building, whilst
retaining the flexibility to
moderate the rate of
capacity expansion
consistent with markets
and balance sheet
prudence.”
Roger Phillimore
Chairman [ 05 ] 2011 Annual Report and Accounts / Lonmin Plc
www.lonmin.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information
The role played by foreign investors in the historic development
of the South African mining industry should not be overlooked,
especially at a time when one of the present government’s
most significant imperatives – the creation of many tens of
thousands of new jobs – will require substantial private fixed
investment if it is to have any chance of success.
In any event it can be argued that ownership of the country’s
mineral wealth is already vested in the State. In accordance with
the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA),
your Company has the right to extract ore and refine precious
and other associated metals. The New Order Mining Rights are
subject to compliance with the detailed terms of the Mining
Charter, and it is to meet these by 2014 that the work of
transformation is directed. We pay taxes and royalties. We
employ, directly and through contractors, some 37,000 people
in our mines. Indirectly through our purchases of goods and
services we employ many thousands more. In reality the
economic benefits of our business are shared with South
Africa, its citizens and businesses. The graphic on page 19
shows that over 80% of the revenue we generated during the
year flowed to employees, the South African Government, and
local suppliers. The proportion paid to shareholders as
dividends was no more than 1%.
Notwithstanding the uncertainty arising from this debate we
remain focused on building mining capacity to our target of
950,000 Platinum ounces. Our key aim will be to mine safe and
profitable ounces while building flexibility to take advantage of
improvements in the market. Given near term market
uncertainties, cash flow will be monitored vigilantly and our rate
of production growth will be moderated when necessary to
ensure balance sheet health. 
In the year under review we reported capital expenditure of 
$410 million of which 56% represents an increase in investment
in ore body development and back up smelting capacity and
we plan our capital spend for 2012 to increase by 9.8% to
around $450 million. It is important that our shareholders
recognise that continued substantial investment reflects our
confidence both in the long term prospects for PGMs and in a
stable and economically vibrant South Africa. There is however
a caveat relating to the fundamental importance of security of
tenure; we cannot reasonably continue a programme of long
term investment if we cannot enjoy the certainty of access to
all the Company’s mineral resources.
In summary, being an effective and supportive corporate citizen
in South Africa, supporting our employees and working in
partnership with the Government of South Africa towards our
transformation targets must be and are priorities. As part of
this, the decision to move our top executive team to South
Africa has been shown to be the right one. I think the move has
also been, in some part, responsible for the major growth from
5% to around 21% we have seen in our South African investor
base over the last year. Lonmin however, remains predominantly
an internationally owned Company. 
Role and Effectiveness of the Board
The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that I report
personally on how the Company has addressed the principles
of the Code relating to the role and effectiveness of the Board.
These topics are covered in detail on page 63, but I welcome
the opportunity to provide an overview.
Maintaining an effective Board is crucial, as it is only through
harnessing the collective skills, knowledge, experience and
intellect of the Directors that we perform at our best in
managing the Company’s affairs. We acknowledge and
support the need for diversity in all its forms, as the current
composition of the Board demonstrates. A great deal of effort
has been put into building your Board, whose members were
drawn from a diverse range of backgrounds, collectively well
equipped to address the challenges of the future. Each Director
was appointed on merit, through an objective process, but it is
the personal character and judgement of the individuals which
matters the most and in this regard, I am confident that the
Board possesses the right attributes.
A great deal has been published on the topic of gender in
recent months and this remains in sharp political focus.
However, this debate has its roots in the UK and Europe, and
Lonmin is an unusual UK Company in that the vast majority of
its assets are in South Africa, where other business priorities
prevail. While we have and will continue to insist on gender
neutral shortlists, the broader needs of the business in
recruiting the best person for the role should and will always
take precedence and, in this context, the issue of gender does
not commend itself to us as needing to be governed by
quotas, formal or informal.
Dividend
Consistent with the dividend policy established a year ago and
recognising the considerable cash commitment inherent in our
capital investment programme, your Board is recommending a
final dividend of 15 cents per share be declared, unchanged
from last year.
Board Changes
Michael Hartnall has served as a Director since May 2003, and
has informed me of his intention not to seek re-election at the
Annual General Meeting (AGM) in January 2012. We will miss
his wise counsel and calm good nature, as Michael has been an
invaluable member of the Board for nine years during which
time he chaired the Audit & Risk Committee and was a member
of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees, as well as
acting as our Senior Independent Director. He will leave with
our thanks and best wishes for the future. Len Konar has already
taken over the chairmanship of the Audit & Risk Committee
and Jim Sutcliffe has agreed to take on appointment as Senior
Independent Director from the date of the AGM.
Outlook
We are cautious in the short term as global uncertainties
continue to play out, but we remain confident that industrial
fundamentals will begin to reassert themselves in the medium
term. Both automobile and jewellery end users are holding up
remarkably well in the face of gathering recession predictions.
In the longer term the return of less dysfunctional markets, the
resumption of growth and the unique environmentally important
properties of these rare PGM metals, increasingly in new uses
such as fuel cells, will underpin higher demand levels. It is our
view that additional supply will be required to meet these higher
needs and moreover that the investment in new capacity,
across the industry, will only be justified by higher Rand prices.
Consequently, our strategy is to continue to invest in capacity
building, whilst retaining the flexibility to moderate the rate of
capacity expansion consistent with markets and balance sheet
prudence. Lonmin is well placed in this as production from the
Marikana resource can be considerably expanded before a
major new shaft system is required.
Employees
Once again, I would like to give the warm thanks of the entire
Board to all our employees, who have worked so hard during
the year and to all our contractors who continue to provide
their support for our operations.
Roger Phillimore
Chairman
11 November 2011
