 [ 06] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman’s Letter
“We have taken definitive steps to secure
our financial future.”
Looking ahead with
renewed confidence
A Chairman’s Letter from Roger Phillimore
Dear Fellow Shareholder,
This has been a year where issues of business and commerce have been
overshadowed by tragic loss of life, violence, unrest and fear. Events at Marikana
and elsewhere mark a watershed for post-Apartheid South Africa, and leave
everyone involved in the country asking questions and seeking answers.
What is clear, though, is that if South Africa is to deal with the historic issues of
poverty and dissatisfaction which underpin much of the unrest we have witnessed,
it will require a growing and effective private sector to provide the jobs so
desperately needed. It is business which will help to deliver much of the growth
which, in turn, will help to provide the economic, educational and social platforms
for change. Given the country’s extensive natural resources, mining will be a key
part of that.
The future of your Company, like our peers, is intrinsically linked with the future of
South Africa. The Government of the Republic recognises the importance of this link.
Whilst there are those who attack the mining industry as being to blame for many of
South Africa’s ills, and demand it does ever more to address them, I am confident
that the government realises that loading more and more costs on to the sector
during difficult times can only lead, in the long run, to serious damage to the nation’s
economy.
Certainly miners have a role to play, and perhaps greater responsibility than others
given the labour-intensive nature of our businesses. Your Company accepts that
challenge, and that responsibility, but we must also be clear that the change all of
us who love South Africa wish to see cannot be delivered by businesses alone. We
are a crucial component, but only by working in partnership with government and
other stakeholders can transformation be delivered. To play our part morally and
legally, we must be financially and commercially healthy. We are a business; without
being successful at what we do we can do nothing to help South Africa.
What is clear from the terrible events of August and September is that, for both
government and the mining industry, the reality of what happened has bred a new
determination to work in partnership for the betterment of South Africa, and to do
all we can to ensure such awful scenes never take place again.
Financial Issues Post Year End
Since the year end there have been a number of significant financial events affecting
your Company, the full details of which are contained in a number of relevant
documents you will, I hope, have seen by the time this Annual Report is published.
Chief amongst these was our announcement on October 30 that we intended to
raise approximately US$800 million in a Rights Issue, the Prospectus for which was
published on 9 November 2012.
Roger Phillimore
Chairman Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 07] Chairman’s Letter
This was designed with one thing in mind: to help
our shareholders maximise returns in the long-term
from this Company’s excellent assets, operational
turnaround and position in the market when it improves.
The fact that this Rights Issue is fully underwritten is
a real vote of confidence in our business, as well as
in South Africa’s ability to deal with its short-term
problems and move forwards.
The Rights Issue is vital, so as not to lose the benefits
of your Company’s fundamental strengths:
• Operations located in the world’s premier PGM
deposit
• Long life mineral resource base backed by long-
term New Order Mining Rights
• Significant inherent value in existing infrastructure
and mineral reserves
• Attractive long-term fundamentals for PGM
markets, despite short-term volatility
• Maximisation of value through vertical integration
• Operational gearing
• Industry leading expertise in processing UG2 ore
The Rights Issue should also be viewed against the
background of our clear strategic focus on future
plans for our outstanding asset at Marikana.
Markets, Operations and Costs
Platinum miners were hit hard by a combination of
lower prices and rising costs, and instability in the
latter part of the year.
Much of this year saw a continuation of the global
economic instability with issues in Europe in particular
heavily impacting sentiment across global markets.
The Events at Marikana, and subsequent strike action
at almost all other South African PGM producers
have, given the importance of South African
producers to global PGM production, in a short space
of time altered the outlook for the supply side of the
PGM industry. These events have increased operating
costs for Lonmin and other companies in the South
African PGM mining industry, while at the same time
creating supply constraints which have contributed to
an increase in PGM prices. Your Board believes that
the disruption to the South African PGM mining
industry is also likely to result in some capacity
reductions in the near term as higher cost operations
are forced to reduce output or close down, and / or in
the longer term as reduced capital expenditure plans
today defer the production of replacement or growth
ounces in the future. Your Board believes that these
factors should sustain improved pricing for PGMs.
Over the longer term, your Board also believes that
improved PGM pricing should be supported by
underlying positive demand dynamics. Automotive
demand is expected to be driven by a combination
of increasingly stringent emissions legislation, the
ongoing extension of this regime to non-road
applications and a positive outlook for vehicle sales
in US and Chinese markets. Although Chinese
growth expectations have recently been downgraded,
consumer expenditure in China is still expected to
increase with positive implications for jewellery sales.
Your Company’s key operational challenges this year
were safety, managing costs and labour relations
(before the events of August and September).
Lonmin can be proud of its safety record. It is the
safest South African platinum mining company, having
achieved the lowest Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate
(LTIFR) amongst the primary producers, and a number
of our shafts have set records in South Africa for
fatality-free shifts.
Constant vigilance and procedures notwithstanding,
regrettably two colleagues lost their lives in mining
related incidents this year.
Your Company is determined to continue to be the
safest platinum miner in the business. Our
commitment to “zero harm” remains undiminished
and safety will always be our first priority.
Rising wages and other price increases in areas such
as power drove gross costs up this year. Unit costs
were of course significantly impacted by the seven
weeks we were unable to mine due to the illegal strike
at Marikana. The cost of agreeing the wage settlement
which ended it will add approximately 14% to our
wage costs in 2013 over our normalised costs for
2012. Included in this are the awards negotiated in
2011 for implementation in October 2012.
Industry Challenges
The issue of nationalisation seems to have slipped
down the political agenda in South Africa during
2011/12, with many mainstream politicians publicly
stating that it would neither be practicable nor
desirable. However, there remains the issue of multi-
faceted intervention by the state which over time
could amount to nationalisation by stealth. Your
Company is working hard, in partnership with its
industry peers and business organisations, to
address this.
Responsible mining companies operate to the
standards laid down by the International Council on
Mining and Metals (ICMM). They have much to offer
their host nations and, because of this, we and our
peers continue to make clear to government that a
balance must be maintained between the distribution
of wealth generated by mining companies and
recognition of the commercial and competitive
environment in which they operate.
Transformation
Your Company has long taken the view that delivering
on its ambitions and responsibilities in these areas is
an essential element of its licence to operate in South
Africa, both legally in terms of its obligations under the
Mining Charter or morally in terms of being a good
corporate citizen of the country.
Lonmin has a good record and one it can be proud of,
but it has also delivered more slowly in some areas,
notably the difficult issue of housing, than it would have
liked, despite strenuous efforts. Addressing these
shortcomings is a priority, but I would not wish this to
eclipse the good work we have done in recent years.
See p 11
for more 
information
Rights Issue
See p 33
for more 
information
Safety Record
See p 12
for more 
information
Wage Costs [ 08] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman’s Letter
The socio-economic realities of South Africa are such
that no company, however large, can resolve the
issues of housing, unemployment, poverty and
dissatisfaction which exist in the country. Your
Company is wholly committed to both the BEE and
Transformation agendas, to being part of the future
success of the Republic of South Africa, and of being
a force for good in the country. In doing so, it will grow
and ensure returns for its investors.
Role and effectiveness of the Board
Your Company is committed to the highest standards
of corporate governance.
The continuous improvement opportunity presented
by a formal review of the Board’s effectiveness is
valuable. Ordinarily, we would have done such a
review in August / September 2012, but given all the
recent events the Board judged that it would be
inappropriate to conduct such a review in 2012. The
Board does not believe that this decision creates any
additional risk for shareholders, and believes that the
decision can be justified given that the time otherwise
needed for a review was utilised to address the
multiple issues then facing the Company. It is currently
intended that an independent facilitator will manage a
rigorous review process in 2013. 
Management
Your management team is to be congratulated for
the strong operational performance of the business
through July, with marked improvement in the
performance of safety initiatives, production and
costs. The terrible Events at Marikana happened days
after Ian Farmer, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), was
hospitalised with a serious condition. The Board
appointed Simon Scott to act as CEO in Ian’s
absence, and he has done a frankly remarkable job
in leading the strong executive team in returning the
business to stable production and developing the
renewal plans for the future. My thanks are due to
them for their exceptional commitment to Lonmin.
The Board recognises the Company’s need for
permanent leadership and will take such actions as
are necessary to establish this at the appropriate time.
Dividend
Whilst dividends are not affordable in the short-term,
Lonmin has confidence in the future demand for
PGMs and its expectation is for prices to firm in
response to anticipated supply deficits in the future.
We are also determined to increase the effectiveness
of our operations, in both production and cost terms.
While there are challenges to be overcome in
achieving this, our current planning anticipates
positive free cash flow from the 2014 financial year
onwards. The return to stronger earnings and cash
flows will permit the resumption of dividends at some
point. When we do resume the payment of dividends
we would intend to follow the existing policy of
declaring an ordinary final dividend at a rate which the
Board expects can at least be maintained in
subsequent years.
Outlook
Sales of Platinum is forecast to be around 660,000
ounces for the 2013 financial year, significantly
impacted by the Events at Marikana which have
resulted in lower capital spend, the suspension of
mining at K4 and the time it takes to ramp up the
operation back to previous levels of productivity.
Metal prices have shown some recovery as recent
industrial unrest across the industry has in a short
space of time altered the outlook for the supply side of
the PGM industry. Lonmin is extremely well positioned
to benefit from a strong pricing environment when
it comes thanks to the quality of our ore body, our
un-utilised shaft capacity, our immediately available
ore reserves, and the capacity and quality of our
Processing Division.
Employees
We are a large Company, averaging some 28,000
employees (and another 10,000 contractors). It has
been my practice to thank them each year for their
work, dedication and loyalty. Given the nature of our
business and the risks associated with it this thank
you, on behalf of our shareholders, is always heartfelt
and genuine.
This year, though, our people have been through
something unprecedented. The bravery we witnessed
amongst employees determined to come to work
despite terrible intimidation, amongst managers who
faced down angry, armed mobs of people and then,
ultimately, the courage of the entire workforce in
coming together in the wake of the deaths of so many
colleagues and friends to help your Company return
to operations.
We have seen terrible things in 2012, but, as is often
the way in times of crisis, we have also seen the very
best of people. For everything our people have done
this year, much of it beyond anything we could have
expected of them, my thanks are particularly
poignant.
Roger Phillimore
Chairman
See p 61
for more 
information
Corporate
Governance
See
p 58-60
for more 
information
Board and
Management
See p 13
for more 
information
Sales Guidance
