 Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 09] Chief Executive Officer’s Review
“We delivered a solid operational performance in the 2012
financial year in spite of the significant disruptions that
we experienced.”
Operational improvement
continues around our
excellent assets
Dear Fellow Shareholder,
1. Introduction
Both the Chairman and I have spoken in this report about the shocking
events which took place at Marikana in 2012, their impact and effect on our
Company, and South Africa more widely.
As the Acting Chief Executive Officer (CEO), it is my role in this section of our
Annual Report to review the year for our shareholders and to report on our
performance. Our success as a business is central to our ability to be a good
corporate citizen of South Africa and to play our part in its transformation.
Everyone, then, has a stake in our success.
I am pleased to report that we delivered a solid operational performance in
the 2012 financial year, in spite of the significant disruptions that we
experienced. The results reflect the healthy state of our operating assets
and a team that is continuing to deliver in a challenging environment. 
Taking the 2012 financial year as a whole total tonnes mined were 10.4 million,
a 1.3 million tonnes decrease from 2011 as a result both of the Events at
Marikana and the uncharacteristically high number of safety stoppages that
were seen across the South African PGM mining industry during the first half.
This resulted in total refined production for 2012 of just under 690,000
Platinum ounces compared to just over 730,000 Platinum ounces in the
previous year. Sales of Platinum ounces were 702,000 helped by running
down stocks in the pipeline. 
Total revenue declined by US$378 million from 2011 to US$1,614 million
for the year ended 30 September 2012. Total underlying costs (excluding
the impact of the strike disruption) in US Dollar terms decreased by
US$134 million mainly due to the impact of cost escalations being offset by
decreased production and positive foreign exchange movements. Resulting
underlying EBIT was US$67 million, although this is before special costs
including those relating to the Events at Marikana and the impairment of
Akanani. After special items, which are detailed in the Financial Review,
the loss before interest and taxation was US$702 million.
Our unit cost guidance of an 8.5% increase was exceeded as unit costs
increased by 12.9% to R8,507 per PGM ounce produced as a result of the
significant disruption to production we experienced. On a normalised basis,
unit costs would have increased by 5.2%.
Cash flow generated from operations was US$300 million although this
benefited from the pre-paid sale of gold undertaken in the first half of the
year and the reduction in closing stocks following the Events at Marikana.
Capital expenditure at US$408 million was less than guidance. Total cash
outflow was US$185 million leaving net debt at US$421 million. 
Simon Scott
Acting Chief Executive Officer [ 10] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
We have been monitoring carefully our covenant
position in relation to our existing debt facilities.
While the covenants as at 30 September 2012
were not breached our debt levels are likely to
rise significantly over the coming months in order
to fund the production ramp up and enable stock
levels to be rebuilt through the production
pipeline. Indeed at 31 October 2012 net debt
was approximately US$550 million. In light of this,
we believe that the Company may breach its
covenants under the terms of the existing debt
facilities when they are tested for the six months
ended 31 March 2013, or subsequently, in the
event that the Company does not raise new
equity and secure the agreed amendments to its
existing bank facilities. This is addressed in
Section 4 below.
2. Safety
Our commitment to zero harm and safe production
in our work place remains undiminished. We
believe that while our fundamental approach to
safety management remains sound, we continue
to learn from the root cause of each incident.
Regrettably we recorded two mining related
fatalities during the period and we extend our
sincere condolences to the family and friends of
Mr Albino Moises Cuna who died in December
2011 and Mr Thobisani David Didi who died in
June 2012. The full year mining safety record,
absent these fatalities, has been commendable.
Lonmin achieved the lowest Lost Time Injury
Frequency Rate (LTIFR) in the platinum industry of
4.16 per million man hours worked, 11.7% lower
than the 4.71 achieved in 2011. Rowland shaft
continued to be an industry leader as it recorded
the significant achievement of 12.9 million Fall of
Ground Fatality Free Shifts over a ten year period.
We also recorded a best ever five million Fatality
Free Shifts for Lonmin as a whole. We remain
completely focused on improving our safety
working in partnership with the Department of
Mineral Resources (DMR).
3. Operational Review
There is no question that the tragic events that
took place at our Marikana operations in August
and September were hugely disruptive but I am
pleased to say that we are working well to
stabilise the Company and bring production back
to normal. Following the addendum to the
existing wage agreement signed at the end of
September, employee attendance is back to
normal levels. The production ramp up is
currently going better than expected and we fully
anticipate that we will be operating at previously
achieved productivity run rates during the third
quarter of the 2013 financial year.
Mining
In respect to the 2012 financial year, the total
tonnes mined were 10.4 million, a 1.3 million
tonnes decrease from the 2011 financial year.
As noted at the time of the Company’s interim
results, productivity at all the mining divisions,
Karee, Middelkraal, Easterns and Westerns in
the first half of the year was impacted by an
uncharacteristically high number of Section 54
safety stoppages, which were also seen across
the whole South African PGM mining industry
during this period. The momentum established
at the beginning of the second half was however
impacted by the Events at Marikana which
affected production of the whole operation. The
combined impact of these disruptions in the
period was a loss of approximately 2.4 million
tonnes, of which 1.8 million tonnes, equivalent to
110,000 mined Platinum ounces, was as a result
of the Events at Marikana. Notwithstanding the
disruptions we made good progress with our
mining initiatives which aim to improve productivity.
Our immediately available ore reserves increased
by 14% to 3.3 million centares equal to 18 months.
This level of preparedness provides flexibility for
the future. Our safety initiatives have produced
excellent results and this is reflected in the
number of industry safety awards that were won
by the various mining teams and shafts.
Our Line of Sight System to track production on a
daily basis and identify early technical bottlenecks
is progressing well and our production incentive
bonus system is now fully rolled out. In addition
team effectiveness training has now been rolled
out at Karee and early indications are encouraging.
Processing
I am pleased to report the success of a number
of initiatives in the Process Division in the 2012
financial year. The Easterns Tailing Treatment
Plant was commissioned, coming into production
in April 2012, and has contributed to the
improvements in our overall recovery rates. The
smelter complex has improved its flexibility and
capacity through the rebuild and modification of the
Number One furnace and the construction of the
new Number Two furnace. The first matte tap from
the Number Two furnace took place in July 2012.
In terms of performance the total tonnes milled
during the 2012 financial year declined by 10%
to 10.8 million tonnes when compared against
12.0 million tonnes in 2011. This translated into
total refined production for 2012 of just under
690,000 Platinum ounces, compared to just over
730,000 Platinum ounces in the previous year.
Despite the disruptions, we delivered underlying
operational improvements with total milled head
grade and overall concentrator recoveries
improving during the year.
The US Dollar basket price including base metal
revenue at US$1,163 was 16.3% lower than the
prior financial year. The corresponding Rand
basket price including base metal revenue was
ZAR9,304, which was 4.2% lower than the 2011
financial year.
See p 34
for more 
information
Fatality Free Shifts
See p 36
for more 
information
Processing Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
[ 11]
www.lonmin.com
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
4. Balance Sheet Structure
In last year’s Annual Report, we provided
guidance on our planned capital expenditure of
around US$450 million for the 2012 financial year,
based on the then outlook for PGM markets. This
guidance was reiterated at our interim results in
May 2012, recognising the uncertain near term
outlook for PGM prices (the price of platinum had
fallen from a 2012 peak of US$1,722 per ounce
on 28 February 2012 to US$1,440 by the time of
publication of the interim results on 14 May 2012),
and stating our intention to defer future capital
expenditure if appropriate.
By the time of publication of the Third Quarter
Production Report on 26 July 2012, the platinum
price had remained below US$1,500 per ounce
for more than eleven weeks, and we
acknowledged that the weak pricing environment
was likely to persist for longer than anticipated.
As a result, we announced that capital expenditure
would be reduced to around US$430 million in
the 2012 financial year (reflecting the proximity of
the year end and the lead time relating to capital
expenditure programmes), and to around
US$250 million in each of 2013 and 2014
financial years. This reduction would be achieved
principally through the deferral of capital spend
on the Hossy, K4 and Saffy shafts, as well as the
optimisation of some of the processing projects.
Against this backdrop, the Events at Marikana
resulted in a material reduction in mine production
at a time when we were not well positioned to
absorb the resulting financial shock, though
production and sales of finished metal continued
during the period of the work stoppage by
maintaining operations in the Process Division
through the running down of stocks in the pipeline.
Given this we completed a thorough review of
Lonmin’s strategy and capital structure and
concluded that reducing Lonmin’s cost base and
capital expenditure in the near term, whilst raising
additional equity, in conjunction with entering into
amended bank facilities, is the best route to
achieving a more appropriate and robust capital
structure with greater financial flexibility.
We believe that Lonmin’s long-life assets should
be substantially funded by long-term equity
capital, supplemented by free cash flow with
appropriate levels of debt funding available to
provide additional financial flexibility for the Group
as well as to reduce its overall cost of capital. In
this context, we view debt financing as providing
the flexibility required to fund Lonmin’s normal
working capital requirements and to accommodate
short-term cash flow volatility inherent in an
operationally geared business arising from either
or both of movements in the price of PGMs and
the Rand / US Dollar exchange rate. In addition,
we believe that it would be more appropriate for
the Group’s debt facilities to contain covenants
that are linked to capital expenditure and tangible
net worth rather than covenants linked to
profitability, which do not reflect the significant
asset backing that underpins the longer term
credit quality of the Group.
The announcement of our results therefore
coincides with the launch of a Rights Issue
seeking to raise approximately US$817 million
before costs, the intention for which we
announced on 30 October. In addition, the terms
of our debt facilities will be revised subject to a
successful Rights Issue to provide greater
funding flexibility. More details on the agreed
amendments to debt facilities are included in the
Financial Review.
Rights Issue
The proceeds from the Rights Issue will be used
to permanently reduce the Company’s available
US Dollar denominated borrowing facilities from
US$700 million to US$400 million and partially
pay down outstanding amounts on our remaining
facilities. Post the repayment, the US Dollar
Revolving Facility of US$400 million and the other
Facilities of approximately US$225 million will
remain available to the Company. This lower level
of borrowing will provide the flexibility we need to
fund the Company’s normal working capital.
The UK issue price of 140 pence per new share
represents a discount of 44.4% to the theoretical
ex-rights price (TERP) and a discount of 69.1%
to the closing price of 452.8 pence per share on
Thursday 8 November. The South African issue
price of ZAR19.4872 per share represents a
discount of 45.0% to the TERP and a discount
of 69.7% to the closing price of ZAR64.22 per
share on Thursday 8 November.
The Rights Issue is being fully underwritten save
in respect of new shares which the Company’s
Directors have irrevocably committed to take up,
which is around 0.03% of the new shares to be
issued in the Rights Issue. Further details relating
to the Rights Issue are outlined in a separate
announcement published today.
5. Future Production, Cost Management and
Capital Expenditure
Future Production
We continue to have a clear strategic focus on
our mineral resources, mining and processing
infrastructure at Marikana, and have invested
significantly in these areas in recent years. This
investment had two aims. First, it was necessary
in order to restore the operational health of the
business which had fallen to unacceptable levels
prior to 2008. We believe this aim has been
achieved. There have been significant
improvements in metrics such as development,
grade and recoveries, and following further
expenditure in the Process Division the risk of
smelter outages, for example, have fallen
materially. The second aim was to deliver
significant growth in production and sales over
the medium-term in order to meet expected
demand and to result in a reduction in unit costs
over the corresponding period.
See p 43
for more 
information
Equity Capital
See p 43
for more 
information
Borrowing [ 12] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
In light of the Events at Marikana, the focus of
and priority for the Company during the 2013
financial year is to return productivity levels safely
back to, and then above, the run rates achieved
prior to those events and to improve relationships
with employees. Part of this will require
implementing sustainable inclusive collective
bargaining structures that facilitate wage
agreements that are accepted by all the relevant
stakeholders to be binding. We have announced
plans to target production at Marikana of around
680,000 Platinum ounces of metal in concentrate
in the year ending 30 September 2013, although
Platinum sales for the year are expected to be
around 660,000 ounces as in-process inventory
levels are rebuilt within the Process Division. The
ramp up back to these normalised levels of
productivity is so far progressing better than
planned and we fully expect the Marikana
operations to be operating at previously achieved
productivity run rates during the third quarter of
the 2013 financial year.
We will continue to monitor developments in
PGM market conditions closely and may
accelerate or delay planned investment if we
deem doing so to be in the best interests of
shareholders.
Beyond the 2013 financial year, we will continue
to target growth in production and an
improvement in its relative position on the cost
curve. We are targeting production in excess of
750,000 Platinum ounces in each of the years
ending 30 September 2014 and 2015, and in
excess of 800,000 Platinum ounces per annum
by the 2016 financial year.
Cost Management
The Events at Marikana have created two specific
cost pressures for the Company in the 2013
financial year. First, the agreement entered into
with the trade unions and worker representatives
increased the wages paid to Lonmin’s workers
employed in the Category 4-9 bargaining units by
about 14% from 1 October 2012, which includes
the wage increase of 9% due under the existing
wage agreement signed in 2011. As a result,
employment costs overall will increase by
approximately 11% in the 2013 financial year
against the normalised employee cost in FY2012.
Secondly, there is inefficiency inherent in any
production ramp up, as the business bears the
full costs of operations, but does not achieve full
production in the early stages of that ramp up.
As a result, we anticipate unit costs of around
ZAR9,350 per PGM ounce produced for the
2013 financial year.
A number of measures are in place, or will be
implemented during the 2013 financial year,
both to address the pressures of gross cost
increases and also to improve the effectiveness
of the Company’s expenditure.
These measures include:
• A review of the Company’s operating model,
as well as management structure, is
expected to yield savings in excess of
ZAR200 million per annum, on an annualised
basis, with the full effect from 2014 onwards;
• A procurement initiative known as “Total Cost
of Ownership” is being implemented which is
expected to yield savings of ZAR100 million
in the second half of the 2013 financial year
and in each subsequent financial year
thereafter; and
• The Company has already completed and
embedded a productivity enhancement
programme known as “Line of Sight” and
“Mission Directed Work Teams”, which will
form the foundation for a series of further
productivity and optimisation initiatives in the
2013 financial year. Team effectiveness
training trials at various shafts in the Karee
mining unit during the 2012 financial year
have shown the potential of this initiative,
which will be extended across the business
during the 2013 financial year. This will be
supported by improved systems and training,
particularly for supervisory management.
Taken together, these and other initiatives should
significantly improve the productivity of the
Company. 
Capital Expenditure
In order to achieve the targeted level of
production Lonmin expects to invest approximately
US$175 million for the 2013 financial year and
approximately US$210 million for the 2014
financial year (depending on the Rand / US Dollar
exchange rate). Of the aggregate capital
expenditure planned for the 2013 and 2014
financial years, approximately US$260 million
relates to the Mining Division with the balance
relating to the Process Division and expenditure
as part of the Company’s Social Labour Plan
(SLP) commitments. In the 2015 and 2016
financial years, the Directors expect that capital
expenditure will rise to around US$400 million
per annum (depending on the Rand / US Dollar
exchange rate). The step-up in capital expenditure
from 2015 onwards primarily relates to further
development in Hossy, Saffy and K4 in order to
support the increased production levels and
processing projects. However, the increase in
capital expenditure in the 2015 and 2016 financial
years is contingent upon performance in the earlier
years and that there is sufficient market demand
and sufficiently attractive pricing for PGMs to
warrant the increased investment. The thresholds
in the financial covenant linked to capital
expenditure within the amended bank facilities
described in the Financial Review have been set
at approximately 10% above the budgeted levels
of capital expenditure outlined above.
See p 24
for more 
information
Platinum Sales
See p 43
for more 
information
Capital Expenditure Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.lonmin.com
[ 13] Chief Executive Officer’s Review
6. Building a Sustainable Business
Social Licence to Operate
Alongside our legal and regulatory obligations,
we believe it is essential to hold an informal social
licence from the people and communities that
host its operations.
We have transformation goals which were
established in line with the Mining Charter and
are aligned to our SLP commitment to the South
African Government. We have worked with
determination to accomplish the goals we have
set and made progress in many areas, notably
in our education programmes for the community,
in the number of Historically Disadvantaged
South Africans (HDSA) employees within our
management structures, which now stands at
36% (excluding white women) and in our
initiatives to procure from HDSA managed and
owned suppliers.
Our gender-related policies and procedures,
designed to increase the participation of women in
the Company, have had some success, with the
number of women at the Company having grown
by 66% since 2007, but there are still challenges
in order to meet our 2014 commitments.
Nevertheless, we recognise that we have
delivered more slowly in some areas. Housing is
the hardest task the wider mining sector faces,
in terms of what is still to be done. Lonmin is far
from alone in trying to deal with what is essentially
a national problem in South Africa.
Our housing strategy is comprised of three
elements: hostel conversion, Marikana housing
ownership and the long-term housing programme.
To date we have converted 79 of the 128 old-style
hostels into 931 single person occupancy and
580 family units and we have detailed plans to
convert the remaining blocks by 31 December
2014. We have also seen 242 employees
become owners of homes, sold through the
Marikana Housing Development Corporation.
The challenge however is in facilitating the
provision of mass affordable employee
accommodation particularly for our migrant
workforce. The Events at Marikana have
highlighted the critical shortage of affordable
housing as a major challenge for Lonmin and the
South African nation more broadly, reflecting the
need for a solution that involves all stakeholders
including government, mining companies and
employees. Management is engaging with
employees and all stakeholders as necessary to
understand better their requirements as part of
developing a framework for a sustainable and
fundable solution. We recognise there will be a
cost to this and we will develop appropriate
budgets in due course. The partnership Lonmin
has with the Greater Lonmin Community where
its operations are based is important to us. For
over 18 years, we have paid royalties into a trust
on behalf of the Bapo Ba-Mogale community.
The amount of funds contributed to date is
approximately ZAR371 million.
The Events at Marikana have shown, however,
that much remains to be done and we need to
work more closely with our communities to
improve dialogue and rebuild trust as this will be
key to enhancing better relations with them. Our
management team will be focusing on this in the
coming months.
Equity Ownership
We are required to increase HDSA ownership in
our operations by 31 December 2014 to the 26%
required under the Mining Charter. As at 30
September 2012, HDSA investors directly and
indirectly owned 18% of the share capital of our
subsidiaries that own and operate Marikana and
Limpopo and that participate in the Pandora joint
venture, as well as 26% of the share capital of its
subsidiary that owns Akanani.
Our BEE partner, Incwala Resource (Pty) Limited
(Incwala), is owned as to 50.03% of its equity by
Shanduka Group (Proprietary) Limited. Other
equity investors in Incwala include a trust for the
benefit of community members, the Industrial
Development Corporation and Lonmin itself. In
considering how best to meet its HDSA 2014
ownership requirements, we believe that one
element we must consider is how to achieve
further HDSA ownership through a broad-based
solution as this will ultimately be in the best
interests of shareholders.
Judicial Commission of Inquiry
The Judicial Commission of Inquiry into the
Events of Marikana commenced on 1 October,
led by retired Judge Farlam. We welcome this
Inquiry and will be co-operating fully with its work.
7. Guidance
In light of the Events at Marikana, our focus during
2013 is to return production safely back to the
run rate levels achieved prior to those events.
We have announced our plans to deliver Platinum
production at Marikana of 680,000 ounces of
saleable metal in concentrate in the year ending
30 September 2013. This is below our previous
expectations for two reasons associated with the
Events at Marikana: first, due to the estimated
time required to return to normal productivity levels;
and, secondly, due to the impact of lower capital
spend and the suspension of production at K4
shaft which, as previously announced, was placed
on care and maintenance in September 2012.
The metal in concentrate output forecast for 2013
is expected to result in Platinum sales of around
660,000 ounces. The shortfall of around 20,000
ounces from the metal in concentrate output
represents the necessary build-up of pipeline
ounces in the smelters and the refineries during
2013 to replace stocks depleted during the fourth
quarter of the current financial year.
See p 28
for more 
information
Housing Strategy
See p 32
for more 
information
Judicial Commission [ 14] Lonmin Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Taking into account the reduced production
profile for 2013 and the increase in wages, we
anticipate that the unit cost per PGM ounce will
increase by 10% to R9,350.
Capital expenditure for 2013 is forecast to be
US$175 million as mentioned above.
8. Executive
Ian Farmer, CEO, is undergoing a course of
treatment for a serious illness diagnosed in
August. In all of this, he remains firmly in our
thoughts.
Our executive team has excelled, despite trying
times. The team continues to demonstrate its
cohesiveness, eminent expertise, and
notwithstanding the recent absence of Ian, solid
support for me in my role as Acting CEO.
My thanks go to the Chairman and Mahomed
Seedat who have joined the Executive Committee
and to Alan Ferguson who has been working with
me on a part-time basis. Their support has been
invaluable during this challenging time.
9. Thank You to All
The dedication, support and professionalism of
our employees remain key to our success. The
tragic events of the last two months of the
financial year have affected all of us and although
saddened, I am satisfied that the Company
navigated these events appropriately. I am
confident that we have the right strategy and plan
to realise long-term value from the Company’s
high quality resource base and existing
infrastructure for the benefit of all our stakeholders
and I look forward to delivering against these
plans in 2013.
Ian Farmer joins me in conveying our best wishes
to everyone in the Company.
Simon Scott
Acting Chief Executive Officer 01 / 
      Lonmin Explained
     
 16  Our Business Model
 18  Strategic Overview
 22  Market Review
 24  2012 Key Performance Indicators
 26  Transformation and Sustainability Overview
 30  Year at a glance
01 / Lonmin Explained 02 / Directors’ Report – Business Review 03 / Directors’ Report – Governance 04 / Financial Statements 05 / Shareholder Information
