 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
16
This transition took longer to complete than
expected, and there were some delays in 2012
plans that caused potential 2012 business to
move to 2013, but entering 2013 the Group is
well positioned to deliver positive results for
shareholders going forward.
Lonrho remains solely focused on Africa and
being aligned with economic development
across the Continent. 
In 2013 African growth is being stimulated by the
burgeoning oil and gas industry, agricultural
opportunities and a consumer market that is
young, communicative and developing as a very
signiﬁcant segment of society. The formal sector
of the African consumer market is forecast to be
US$1.3 trillion by 2020, and the informal sector is
forecast to be similar in size. 
Africa is becoming one of the world’s largest
consumer markets. 
There is now an increasing commercial
momentum to address this growing consumer
market that can be seen across much of Africa,
where the development of infrastructure,
shopping centres, and consumer focused
projects is expanding rapidly, albeit from a very
low base. 
Surprising to many, seven of the top ten fastest
growing economies in the world are now in
Africa.
The consumer market, of over one billion people,
a large percentage of which are under the age of
25, creates a signiﬁcant commercial opportunity,
and Lonrho’s businesses entering 2013 are
strategically aligned with the requirements and
services needed to meet some of the central
demands of African consumer growth.
The growing demand of the consumer market
within Africa provides signiﬁcant opportunities for
Lonrho’s core businesses.
Our core businesses focus on the oil and gas
industry, and the agriculture sector, and these are
not only helping to fuel African consumer growth
by creating investment and prosperity, but are
also fundamentally changing the standing and
importance of Africa to the world. For the ﬁrst
time, the wider world is becoming dependent on
Africa for energy and for food production. 
Chief Executive
Officer’ s Statement
“20 1 2 was a very significant year for
Lonrho and saw the conclusion, by the
end of the year , of the transition of
Lonrho into a Company that has
successfully completed the
establishment of its core business units
and is now in a strong position to
build on the opportunities in Africa.”
Geoffrey White
Director and Chief
Executive Officer Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17
25% of the world’s oil and gas is now believed to
be in Africa and 60% of the world’s potentially
arable land is in Africa. These are important
statistics that make the Africa of today of growing
global signiﬁcance. The tide is beginning to turn,
rather than Africa being dependent on the world,
the world is increasingly becoming dependent on
Africa for energy and for food production. 
Lonrho has, over the past four years, strategically
positioned its core businesses to be well placed
to service the requirements of this new dynamic
market. Having invested heavily in building the
international standard infrastructure to meet this
trend, global food retailers are now approaching
Lonrho to source fresh and frozen produce from
Africa, and the global oil and gas industry is
encouraging and supporting our development of
the essential infrastructure and logistics
necessary to commercially develop Africa’s oil
and gas resources.
In September 2012, David Lenigas, who was the
Executive Chairman of Lonrho since 2006,
stepped down from the position to become the
Executive Chairman of FastJet Plc. The Board
thank him for his guidance, time and effort as the
Executive Chairman of Lonrho over the past
seven years.
Following a review, the Company’s senior
independent director, Ambassador Frances Cook,
was appointed as the Non-Executive Chairman of
the Company on the departure of Mr Lenigas.
Ambassador Cook brings a unique network of
contacts and experience in Africa and the
Company looks forward to further beneﬁtting
from her guidance and knowledge of the
Continent.
Human resources are key to successful
operations in Africa. During 2012 the Group
continued to recruit industry specialists to further
bolster and develop each of the divisional
operations. The most senior during 2012 being
the appointment of Ben Ward as the CEO of the
Agribusiness division. Ben brings with him a long
and experienced understanding of the sector. 
Lonrho’s four operating business divisions are
speciﬁcally structured to help provide the
requirements of African growth.
Entering 2013 Lonrho is structured into four
divisions: 
Agribusiness (66% of core operating revenues)
Sourcing, production, cold chain logistics,
processing and packaging of fruit, vegetables
and seafood for African and international
supermarkets
At the end of 2012, Lonrho completed the
development of a unique, vertically integrated,
international standard, cold chain logistics and
processing infrastructure. This incorporates the
capacity required to source; produce, process,
package and deliver fresh and frozen produce
from across the countries of southern Africa to
market. This division supplies leading retailers in
Africa such as Shoprite, Checkers, Makro, Food
Lovers and Spar who are all geographically
expanding their operations to serve the growth in
the African consumer market. 
The division also increasingly supplies produce
into international supermarket chains such as
Costco, Walmart, Asda, Tesco, Spinneys,
Waitrose, Carrefour and others. 
The world is becoming more and more
dependent on Africa for food security. Lonrho
provides the international standard delivery
infrastructure required for the export of fresh
produce from Africa to the global marketplace
meeting demand from Europe, the USA, Middle
East and, increasingly, China and the Far East. 
Lonrho is helping to fulﬁl the rapidly increasing
demand from global supermarkets as they look
to Africa as an essential source of fresh produce.
Within the division, Lonrho has also established
niche market, demand driven, growing
programmes aligned with speciﬁc customer
requirements.
The division also distributes John Deere
agricultural equipment into Africa.
Infrastructure (13% of core operating revenues )
Providing the logistical infrastructure necessary
for the expanding oil and gas industry in Africa
Lonrho Ports division has developed an exclusive
oil and gas logistics terminal, Luba Freeport, that
is a ‘one stop shop’ that supports the growing
logistics requirements of the offshore industry in
Equatorial Guinea. Equatorial Guinea is Africa’s
third largest oil producer. Following completion
Left to right Lonrho operations:
Luba Freeport, Rollex,
Oceanfresh. Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
18
Chief Executive Officer’ s Statement continued
of the second phase expansion of the Luba
Freeport project, entering 2013, the oil services
terminal has grown and is now forecast to handle
85%+ of all the support logistics for the
Equatorial Guinea offshore ﬁelds. 
Long term tenants at Luba Freeport include
ExxonMobil, Schlumberger, Noble, MI Swaco,
Ophir, CNOOC, Baker Hughes, Tenaris, Hess,
Marathon and others.
Lonrho is seeking to replicate the success of the
Luba Freeport project into other locations in both
West and East Africa supporting the increasing
infrastructure requirements for oil and gas ﬁnds
on both sides of the Continent, the most
advanced being a proposed oil and gas logistics
terminal in Ghana. 
Hotels (6% of core operating revenues)
The provision of safe, quality accommodation is
an essential precursor for economic growth and
development in an emerging market
During 2012 Lonrho Hotels division continued
with the plan to roll-out its hotel management
company and create a Lonrho branded,
corporate focused, hotel chain in Africa. Lonrho
Hotels has won management contracts and
leases to operate some of the leading hotels in
Africa. Managing hotels in ﬁve countries, the
Lonrho Hotels brand is becoming the choice of
travellers to Africa. During 2012 the division
successfully added the Grand Hotel Kinshasa,
DRC, and The Lansmore Hotel in Gaborone,
Botswana to the portfolio. 
In early 2013 Lonrho Hotels launched the ﬁrst
‘easyHotel by Lonrho’ to meet the growing
market demand for budget hotels. The objective
being to establish a chain of budget hotel
properties managed on behalf of owners,
branded ‘easyHotel by Lonrho’ that provide safe
budget accommodation to a consistent standard
with reliable quality across the whole of Africa. 
Support Services (15% of core operating
revenues)
Providing a single point service solution for
resource companies, large corporates, NGO’s
and Governments
Lonrho’s Support Services division provides a fully
cohesive support service to major clients across
the Continent, delivering a one stop shop for
logistics, accommodation, catering, IT and
services. Customers are typically oil companies,
“Africa is forecast to deliver strong
growth in 2013, and Lonrho has
strategically aligned its operations
with what it believes are the most
important growth opportunities
occurring in Africa, supporting the
increasing demand from the
expanding agriculture, oil and gas
and consumer markets.”
Lonrho Agribusiness, Rollex processing and packing facility, OR T ambo
International Airport, Johannesburg, South Africa Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19
mining companies, NGO’s, the UN, and
international Governments who see the beneﬁt in
a one stop shop provider offering a total solution
for their requirements as they deploy into Africa.
FastJet Plc
In June 2012, Lonrho announced that it had
agreed to separate its aviation division, Lonrho
Aviation, into Rubicon Diversiﬁed Investments
Plc, an AIM listed investment company that was
subsequently renamed FastJet Plc (LON: FJET).
As a consequence of the separation, Lonrho
became the largest shareholder of FastJet Plc
with a 74% holding. The founder and largest
shareholder in easyJet, Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou’s
investment company easyGroup, became a
shareholder in FastJet Plc and provides strategic
management of the company. 
FastJet Plc, in which Lonrho maintains a passive,
arm’s-length, shareholding has subsequently
launched as a low cost carrier domestically in
Tanzania and believes that with Sir Stelios’
direction and experience FastJet Plc has the
potential to develop into Africa’s leading low cost
carrier.
Lonrho’s stake in FastJet Plc has been reduced
from 74% to 55% post-separation as FastJet Plc
raises development capital to implement its
business plan.
Due to current market conditions experienced by
FastJet Plc, an impairment review has been
carried out which resulted in an impairment
charge being recorded in the income statement
of £7.7m. 
Outlook
2012 was a very signiﬁcant year for Lonrho and
saw the conclusion of the transition of Lonrho
into a Company that has successfully completed
building the foundations of its core business
units. Africa is forecast to deliver strong growth in
2013, and Lonrho has strategically aligned its
operations with what it believes are the most
important growth opportunities occurring in
Africa, supporting the increasing demand from
the expanding agriculture, oil and gas and
consumer markets. 
Despite challenging global market conditions,
Lonrho’s outlook for 2013 remains in line with
the Board’s expectations and the Group expects
to continue to deliver improved performance
across each of its operating divisions.
The Board believes that the strategic action taken
in Q3 and Q4 2012, to focus on increasing
margins through operational efficiencies and
build long term sustainable customer
relationships, coupled with the decision to
withdraw from less proﬁtable lines of business,
positions Lonrho strongly for entering 2013.
Geoffrey White
Director and Chief Executive Officer
27 March 2013
Left to right Lonrho operations:
Luba Freeport, easyHotel
signage Johannesburg, Home
Farms produce.
