 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
14
I have, during my long career with the US
Government State Department, lived in Africa for
a dozen years and have a strong affinity with the
Continent and its people. I have now served
5 years as a Non-Executive Director on the Board
of Lonrho and after visiting many of our
operations in Africa, I can report, with conviction,
that we are very well positioned to participate in,
and to help, Africa’s emergence as a signiﬁcant
international economic motor. 
Already, seven of the world’s ten fastest growing
economies are in Africa, assisted by the discovery
of the impressive quantities of new onshore and
offshore hydrocarbons in West and in East Africa. 
At Lonrho we are well positioned to support
Africa’s export sector growth in hydrocarbons
and in agriculture. Africa is undergoing the
longest single period of economic expansion on
the Continent since the independence years a
half century ago. Signiﬁcantly, Africa’s macro
level growth is widespread, far beyond the oil
economies. Expected growth will rise from
around 4.5% last year to 4.8% in 2013. Foreign
direct investment has been slower into Africa
than it should have been, given this kind of
impressive record (though it is expected to rise, in
the non-oil sectors, from around US$33 billion
currently, to around US$84 billion in 2014.) Our
CEO, Geoffrey White reports an increasingly new
and interested audience, wanting to understand
Africa’s potential and what our historic Company
is doing to take advantage of the Continent’s
current immense opportunities. 
Shareholders know that Lonrho is already
invested in core sectors, from Agribusiness to
Infrastructure, to Support Services and Hotels,
sectors that are necessary to support the rapid
growth that is already happening. 
Our key division, Agribusiness, which accounts
for over 65% of Lonrho revenue from core
operating divisions, has been going through a
management transition, and restructuring, so it
can better compete in the fast moving, global,
and demanding agriculture and logistics space.
We hired a well-qualiﬁed CEO to speciﬁcally
oversee this division of Lonrho operations,
located across Southern Africa, and ranging from
fruit and vegetables, to ﬁsh and crustacea, and
farm machinery. He will be focusing on margin
improvement, moving away from a short term
trading focus, while continuing to garner
contracts with the world’s largest food importers
(Costco, Walmart and the majority of the UK
branded stores are already customers). We have
just opened a sales office in China as well. Whilst
Chairman’ s
Statement
“It is a special honour for me 
to be addressing shareholders 
in my first months as your 
new Chairman.”
Ambassador Frances Cook
Non-Executive Chairman Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15
we had a few disappointments in this sector
during this transitional year, it was not due to the
revamped business model, but rather to the late
delivery of tractors to our John Deere sales
operation in Mozambique, and to lower than
expected ﬁsh size off Namibia. Even with these
late year slippages, our Agribusiness division
proudly posted a 12 month growth ﬁgure of
24.5% adjusted like-for-like at constant foreign
exchange. In short, this is a growth platform, and
record, we can be proud of. 
Infrastructure and Support Services core
operating divisions continue to grow at a healthy
rate, expanding business across a broad range of
activities which, among other things, will support
the rapid expansion of energy production in
Africa. Our IT operations have added another
country (Namibia), and our facilities operations,
both e-KwikBuild and AFEX, our base support
operations (for oil exploration companies, for
example), are also expanding into this dynamic
new sector. Our oil and gas port operation in
Luba, Equatorial Guinea, which I visited in
February 2013, will be a model for our
engagement with this sector (with a major new
Lonrho managed oil and gas logistics port
expected to be announced in 2013 in Ghana).
These are exciting times in the oil and gas
industry in Africa, and Lonrho is becoming a
highly regarded leader in logistics for this sector.
Hotels are legacy projects for Lonrho, but we are
moving into a more modern form of participation
in that sector, creating our own brand for higher
end facilities, and opening a series of “easyHotels
by Lonrho” for budget business travellers all over
the Continent. We opened a Lonrho “Lansmore”
in Botswana this year, adding to our historic hotel
property in Mozambique, as well as large
renovation and management efforts in the DRC
of major government owned hotels. In 2013, we
expect to expand the “easyHotel by Lonrho”
brand all over South Africa, and to launch into
North, East and West Africa. 
FastJet Plc is in the midst of converting Lonrho’s
much appreciated Fly540 brand of smaller
regional planes, ﬂying local routes, into a
continental budget airline, ﬂying larger planes,
following the separation of Lonrho’s aviation
division in June 2012. FastJet Plc, in which
Lonrho is the largest shareholder, will still service
the under-served “connector” market, as well as
extending ﬂights to regional destinations, with
reliable, safe and inexpensive ﬂights, using very
modern pricing algorithms. From the start of the
new operating model in Tanzania four months
ago, we expect FastJet Plc to expand its no-frills,
reliable service in 2013. 
Throughout its 100 year old legacy, Lonrho has
been known for its Corporate Responsibility
(“CR”) across Africa. In 2012, each of our
companies named a CR coordinator, so that we
can better focus in our chosen areas, education
and good environmental citizenship. You will see
photographs throughout this report of our CR
activities, which should be a source of pride to all
Lonrho shareholders. We have instituted,
company wide, an annual CR prize, trained our
Directors in CR, and joined the UN Global
Compact which monitors CR globally. We are
committed to leaving a positive “footprint”
wherever we work, and to being a good
corporate citizen in the 18 countries where we
are engaged. We know you would not expect
anything less.
Ambassador Frances Cook
Non-Executive Chairman
27 March 2013
Luba Freeport was awarded the Cook
Award, 2012, in recognition of successful
strategies and initiatives implemented in
pursuit of corporate responsibility
values.
Luba Freeport sponsored school, Centro
Prescolar Virgin de Monsterrat.
