 Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 01
Highlights
Financial Highlights
• Revenue from core operating divisions
2
for the 12 months to 31 December 2012 was £186.3m compared
with £152.9m for the 15 months to 31 December 2011. On an adjusted like-for-like basis at constant
currency
1
, revenue in the 12 months to 31 December 2012 has increased across all four divisions, with an
overall increase of 23.6%. 
• The Group’s total reported gross margin increased from 26.9% to 28.9% (comparing the 12 month period
with the prior 15 months).
• Net operating loss
3
for the year from core operating divisions was £3.4m. 
• An Executive review of the value of Lonrho’s investment in FastJet Plc resulted in an impairment charge of
£7.7m recorded to the income statement in the reported period. 
• The Group’s loss before tax for the year was £6.3m (2011: proﬁt before tax of £0.8m).
• As at 31 December 2012, the Group’s net assets were £174.2m (2011: £155.7m).
• Basic earnings/(loss) per share was 0.11 pence loss per share (2011: 0.49 pence earnings per share). 
• The Group’s net indebtedness
4
reduced by £11.9m to £87.2m in the 12 months to 31 December 2012. 
Operational Highlights
The majority of Lonrho’s development programme has been completed and related capital expenditure has
fallen accordingly. The businesses which have been part of the Group for the entire year have performed well.
Amongst the signiﬁcant operating highlights in the period are:
• At the end of 2012, Lonrho has completed the development of a unique, vertically integrated, international
standard, cold chain logistics and processing infrastructure within the Agribusiness division to deliver fresh
and frozen produce from across the countries of southern Africa to market.
• Following completion of the second phase expansion of the Luba Freeport project, entering 2013, the oil
services terminal continued to grow and is now forecast to handle 85%+ of all the support logistics for the
Equatorial Guinea offshore ﬁelds.
• During 2012 Lonrho Hotels division has continued with the plan to roll-out its hotel management company
and Lonrho Hotels has won new management contracts and/or leases to operate some of the leading
hotels in Africa.
Agribusiness
• Oceanfresh has implemented a partnership with Costco in the USA to supply ‘Kirkland Signature’ branded
hake loins to Costco stores worldwide. An additional Costco ‘Kirkland Signature’ line started delivery in the
later part of 2012. 
• Oceanfresh has been granted exclusive ﬁshing rights for Tuna in the 12 mile territorial waters and the 200
mile Exclusive Economic Zone in Mozambique for 5 years, the ﬁrst time the Mozambique Government has
issued ﬁshing rights for longer than 1 year. 
• LonAgro added the exclusive John Deere Distributorships for Tanzania and Southern Sudan in the year.
Infrastructure
• Luba Freeport beneﬁtted from signiﬁcantly increased exploration activity in 2012 which is expected to
continue into 2013. 
Hotels
• The Lansmore Masa Square opened under Lonrho Hotels four/ﬁve-star brand in the heart of the central
business district in Gaborone.
• Lonrho was awarded the management agreement for the Grand Hotel Kinshasa, in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo. 
• Continued strong performance of the Hotel Cardoso in Mozambique as well as increased activity at the
Grand Karavia in Lubumbashi in the DRC. 
• Entering into the easyHotel franchise agreement with the ﬁrst hotel opened in March 2013 as part of the
budget hotels roll-out programme.
Support Services
• CES expanded its operations into Namibia.
• Arlington Associates, a new business start-up, implemented a contract with the Government of Nigeria for
the inspection of crude oil and gas exported from Nigeria. 
FastJet Plc
• During 2012 Lonrho’s aviation division (the Fly540 regional airline) was separated out of Lonrho to create
FastJet Plc, an African low cost carrier, whose shares are listed on AIM. On separation Lonrho became the
largest shareholder in FastJet Plc. 
18 Countries
£186.3m
Revenue up 23.6% 
like-for-like
1
4 Divisions
28.9%
Gross Margin up 2%
1 Adjusted like-for-like ﬁgures include acquisitions (pre-acquisition comparables based on unaudited management accounts), exclude start-up businesses trading
for less than 12 months and are adjusted to the comparable 12 month period January to December at constant currency.
2 Core operating divisions include Agribusiness, Infrastructure, Hotels and Support Services. Following the FastJet Plc transaction, the Transportation Division is no
longer considered a core operating division.
3 Net operating proﬁt/(loss) is deﬁned as proﬁt before tax for the period excluding share of results of associates, jointly controlled entities and investments, as well
as amortisation and share based payments expense. 
4 Net Indebtedness excludes loans from minority shareholders. Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Investor Information
Of the 10 fastest growing
economies in the world, 7 are
now in Africa
The African
Opportunity
02
Lonrho Agribusiness, Home Farms, Strawberries. Opposite page, top right, Lonrho Logistics. Africa as a continent has achieved social,
economic and political progress that has seen a
doubling of economic output over the past
decade. The one billion people in Africa are
developing as signiﬁcant consumers and are
forecast to become a market worth an estimated
US$2.5 trillion by 2020, making it one of the
world’s largest consumer markets. 
The demographic proﬁle of this young population
predicts that the middle classes will continue to
grow, from 355 million (34% of Africa’s population)
in 2010 to a forecast 1.1 billion (42%) by 2060. The
increasing disposable income from this growth is
establishing a new generation of consumers, who
are starting from a very low base, so have an
immensely high propensity to spend and consume.
Africa has also experienced rapid urban growth
over the last decade. The urban population is
currently 40% of the total population and is
projected to rise to about 60% by 2050. Forty-nine
African cities now have a population in excess of
1 million, and three of those are already home to
over 8 million people, each larger than London. 
Politically there has also been encouraging
progress and the majority of African countries now
conduct regular elections at national, regional and
local levels. Twenty-one countries in Sub-Saharan
Africa are now full or hybrid democracies.
Sub-Saharan Africa’s GDP grew 5.8% in 2012, faster
than Russia (4.1%) and Brazil (3.6%) and since 2000
foreign direct investment into Africa has risen by
more than 400%. Governments in Sub-Saharan
Africa have reduced their external debt levels from
63% of GDP in 2000 to just 22% in 2012. 
Indicators of economic growth are clear, there are
more than 735 million mobile phone subscribers in
Africa in 2012, twice as many as in the USA. Seven
of the top ten fastest economies in the world are
now African economies.
African Agriculture
Forecasts predict that the world will be challenged
to meet global food supply requirements by 2050.
An increasing global population (estimated at
another 2.5 billion people by 2050) and
diminishing output from traditional agricultural
sources mean that food security has become of
paramount importance. 
The forecast shortages are more concerning when
combined with projections demonstrating the
move by the populations of India and China from a
subsistence rice based diet to one demanding
increasing components of fruit, vegetables and
protein. 
Africa is not the only, but is the most important,
part of the solution to food security for the world.
Africa contains 60% of the world’s potentially
arable land, 733 million hectares, with abundant
rainfall and an advantageous climate for
agricultural production. Africa is the second largest
land mass in the world, dwarﬁng China, the USA
and Europe. 
Africa’s agricultural output was US$250 billion in
2011 and this is forecast to grow to US$500 billion
by 2020 and US$800 billion by 2030. However, this
is a fraction of Africa’s natural potential to become
the agricultural supplier to world demand. 
The opportunity for agriculture in Africa to develop
to meet domestic demand within Africa as it
becomes a consumer society and also to export to
meet increasing global demand is clear. 
Oil & Gas
Recent oil and gas ﬁnds both onshore and
offshore, in the East and West of Africa have
underpinned estimates that Africa contains over
25% of the world’s oil and gas reserves and as such
is becoming an important source of global energy.
The traditional African oil and gas producers of
Angola, Nigeria and Equatorial Guinea are now
being joined by a number of newly producing
countries across Africa.
2012 has seen a spate of further new discoveries
across East Africa, with a recent U.S. Geological
Survey estimating over 250 trillion cubic feet of
natural gas may lie off Kenya, Tanzania and
Mozambique, creating one of the largest gas ﬁelds
in the world. Onshore discoveries have been made
in East Africa, complementing the existing ﬁnds at
Lake Albert in Uganda.
In West Africa the reported reserves available for
development continue to expand as a spate of
exploration both increases the volumes of already
located reserves and establishes new ﬁelds from
Angola right along West Africa to Mauritania.
Lonrho Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 03
Agriculture
60% of the world’ s arable land
is in Africa
Oil & Gas
It is estimated that 25% of the
world’ s Oil & Gas is in Africa
One billion people in Africa
are becoming a significant
consumer market
