 9
Lookers plc Report & Financial Statements 2006
“Our continuing success 
is a testament to the
effectiveness of our
approach and the 
strategy we have been
implementing for a 
number of years.”
Ken Surgenor 
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s 
Review 2006
opposite page  – Lookers Mercedes-Benz  –  Brighton  (acquisition) 10
Lookers plc Report & Financial Statements 2006
Chevrolet 3
Citroën 1
Hyundai 2
Kia 3
Mazda 1
Nissan 2
Peugeot 2
Renault 12
Seat 1
Toyota 6
Vauxhall 18
Volkswagen 5
Prestige 48
Volume 56
Motorcycles 2
Aston Martin 1
Bentley 1
Chrysler,Jeep,Dodge 4
Ferrari  1
Honda 5
Jaguar 7
Land Rover 10
Lexus  4
Maserati  1
Mercedes-Benz  4
Saab 3
Smart 1
Volvo 6
Proportion invested in 
Volume brands
BMW 1
Yamaha 1
Proportion invested in 
Motorcycle brands
Proportion invested in 
Prestige brands
Overview of Franchise breakdown
(top) Taggarts Jaguar/Land Rover / Volvo – Glasgow  (new build)
(bottom) Lookers Lexus – Hatfield  (acquisition) 11
Lookers plc Report & Financial Statements 2006 12
Lookers plc Report & Financial Statements 2006
Another year of outstanding
performance as one of the UK’s
leading Motor Retail Groups
(top left) Lookers Mercedes-Benz  –  Redhill  (acquisition)
(top right) Lookers Mercedes-Benz  –  Gatwick  (acquisition)
(bottom) Lookers Mercedes-Benz  –  Eastbourne  (acquisition) 13
Lookers plc Report & Financial Statements 2006
I am pleased to report these record results and excellent performance, reflecting the continued implementation
of our successful strategy, including the development of complementary business streams, close relationships with
manufacturer partners and a decentralised management structure which delivers superior returns from the
franchises we operate. 
We continue to develop all three channels of our business through investment in existing operations and through selected
acquisitions and as a result we now have one of the broadest revenue streams in the industry which enables us to
outperform the market against the background of a slightly reduced new car market.
This is a proven strategy we have been pursuing for some time to broaden our revenue streams, to open up new growth
opportunities whilst reducing our reliance on the new car market. As a result, new car sales represented only 27 per cent of
gross profit, with used cars and aftersales representing 20 per cent and 53 per cent respectively.
Acquisitions
The fragmented nature of the motor retail and parts distribution industry continues to offer us significant opportunities to
develop our business and Lookers’ proven ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and retain local management
remains key to the Group’s success.
In March 2006 we acquired six Premier Automotive Group (“PAG”) dealerships from HR Owen for a consideration of £5.4
million. These comprised of two Jaguar, two Land Rover and two Volvo dealerships located in Colchester, Ipswich and Bury
St. Edmunds. The acquisition was in line with the Group’s strategy to expand its existing PAG territory and the business has
been successfully integrated and is performing to expectations.
In August we acquired a Chrysler, Jeep, Dodge outlet in Liverpool for a consideration of £1.3 million including the freehold
premises.
In September we acquired a further 10 dealerships from HR Owen for a total consideration of £20.9 million. The acquisition
includes four Mercedes-Benz, two Land Rover, two Lexus and two Chrysler, Jeep, Dodge outlets in the South East and has
significantly improved our mix of prestige brands and re-introduced Mercedes-Benz into our franchise portfolio. The
integration of these ten outlets has now been completed and we are delighted that they are performing in line with
expectations.
Financial Commentary and Dividend
Turnover has increased to £1.43 billion from £1.23 billion last year, representing growth of 16 per cent. We have continued
to drive operating efficiencies and cost reductions across the business whilst both integrating acquisitions and growing
organically. Consequently we have achieved an improvement in the adjusted *operating margin from 2.2 per cent to 2.6 per
cent, an increase of 18 per cent.
I am delighted to be able to report a 35 per cent increase in adjusted *profit from operations from £27.1 million to £36.6
million. Even more pleasing is the fact that our underlying businesses grew very strongly contributing £8.0 million of this
increase.
Profit before exceptional items, impairment of goodwill and amortisation of intangible assets increased by an impressive 47
per cent to £26.4 million (2005: £18.0 million), generating a 41 per cent increase in adjusted* earnings per share of 10.63p
(2005: 7.54p).
Dividend
Following last year’s excellent performance and reflecting our continued confidence in the Group’s prospects, the Board is
proposing a final dividend of 2.20p, bringing the total dividend for the year to 3.50p. This 15 per cent increase on 2005
reflects our commitment to a more progressive dividend policy, as outlined previously. Subject to final approval at the
Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 31 May 2007 to shareholders on the register at 13 April 2007.
Operating Review - Franchised Businesses
We are delighted to have continued to outperform the market across our franchise business. Lookers’ new car retail sales
were ahead by 5 per cent against a market down 4 per cent.
Chief Executive’s Review 2006
*Adjusted pre exceptional items, goodwill impairment and amortisation of intangible assets. 14
Lookers plc Report & Financial Statements 2006
This strong performance reflects a combination of our broad base of manufacturing partners with whom we have close
relationships, a wide geographic spread across the United Kingdom and our decentralised management structure which
empowers key franchise directors and local management.
On the volume side of the business, Vauxhall has had a strong year despite the disruptions from an ongoing refurbishment
programme across a number of our Vauxhall outlets. In particular, at St. Helens we demolished the existing facility and
completely rebuilt it to provide a far better customer experience in our showroom, used car display and service capabilities.
We currently have 18 Vauxhall outlets operating across the significant market areas of the North West, Midlands and
Northern Ireland.
During 2006 we signed a franchise partnership with the Korean value brand Kia, introducing the franchise to the Group
under both the Lookers and Charles Hurst brands and opened dealerships in Macclesfield, Stockport and Belfast. Through
these dealerships we have recently launched the new Kia ‘C sector’ Cee’d model, the first Kia model to be built in Europe.
This partnership complements our existing portfolio of franchises and we are looking forward to building up our
relationship with Kia Motors in the future.
PAG has had a good year and we now represent PAG across 25 outlets throughout the significant market areas of the South
East, West of Scotland and Northern Ireland. These include the 8 dealerships we acquired during the year from HR Owen
which have complemented our PAG franchises in the South East. These dealerships have been successfully integrated and
are trading in line with expectations.
2006 has seen a number of developments across our PAG sites. In Scotland we were awarded the Land Rover franchise for
Glasgow from 1 July. We redeveloped our existing solus Jaguar site into an excellent facility in Glasgow under the Taggarts
brand to also incorporate both Land Rover and Volvo. The redevelopment of the Motherwell site has also been completed
on time and according to schedule, resulting in a multi-franchise site accommodating Hyundai, Jaguar, Mazda and Volvo.
Toyota and Lexus have performed well during the year with Toyota benefiting from the refurbishment of six of its outlets in
2005, which has generated a higher customer footfall.
Charles Hurst has once again had an excellent year. It now includes 26 dealerships representing 18 brands.The Charles Hurst
Specialist Car Division continues to go from strength to strength and highlights for the year included the launch of the
Bentley Continental GTC, Ferrari 599 GTB and more recently the Maserati Quattroporte automatic. In September 2006 we
took the decision to introduce the Charles Hurst brand into England. Two of our London-based Land Rover dealerships,
acquired from HR Owen in September 2006, have been integrated under the Charles Hurst name. Charles Hurst has been
associated with Land Rover since its inception and is unrivalled in terms of heritage and is therefore felt to be a more
suitable brand for the London Land Rover dealerships.
Used Car Supermarkets
Our expansion into the Used Car Supermarket business in 2005 was in line with our stated strategy of broadening our
revenue streams by expansion into complementary business areas. A growing number of the vehicles sold by these outlets
are sourced from our existing franchise network, vehicles which would otherwise have been traded at auction.
In January 2006 we opened our third site in the South East which was a greenfield location. We now have a presence in the
South East, South West and the Midlands. In addition, we rationalised all three sites onto a standard platform.The result from
our used car supermarkets was below our expectations, however, as the new site matures and the impact of this
rationalisation together with the recent strengthening of the management team takes effect, we expect the benefits to flow
through from the second quarter of 2007.
Parts Distribution
Our parts distribution business continues to exceed expectations and has grown both turnover and profits.
FPS Distribution (“FPS”) has achieved an excellent performance during the year with profit from operations up 11 per cent
on last year, despite the disruption in the last quarter of relocating our national distribution centre coupled with dual
running costs.
We have previously announced the development of an 80,000 square foot footprint purpose-built facility in Sheffield to
enable the expansion of the distribution side of the business.This facility was completed and became fully operational from
December 2006. With a double mezzanine floor, it provides 140,000 square foot of storage and is capable of being further
expanded to over 200,000 square foot of storage capacity.
In October 2006, FPS was awarded the ‘UK Supplier of the Year’ award at the CAT Awards. This award is testament to the
division’s excellent performance and I take this opportunity to congratulate the FPS team on yet another successful year.
Chief Executive’s Review 2006
(continued)
(continued on page 19) 15
Lookers plc Report & Financial Statements 2006
(top)  Lookers Chrysler, Jeep, Dodge  –  Hatfield  &  Romford  (acquisitions)
(second row) Lookers Lexus – Brighton, Lookers Smart  –  Brighton  (acquisitions)
(third row) Lookers Kia  –  Macclesfield  &  Stockport  (re-franchised)
(bottom) Taggarts Hyundai/Jaguar/Mazda/Volvo –  Motherwell (re-development) 16
Lookers plc Report & Financial Statements 2006
FPS Distribution Centre - Sheffield  (new build) 17
Lookers plc Report & Financial Statements 2006 18
Lookers plc Report & Financial Statements 2006 19
Lookers plc Report & Financial Statements 2006
Apec, our braking parts specialist, has also had an excellent year, performing ahead of expectations and we have recently
completed a warehouse reorganisation for this part of the business to support further sales growth in 2007. We intend to
launch a new range of hydraulic brake parts on to the market in the second quarter of 2007 and this should lay down the
platform for additional growth in the second half of 2007, and more significantly in 2008.
The Board
There have been several changes to the composition of the Board over the last twelve months. In April 2006, Neil Clyne
resigned as a Non-Executive Director after serving six years, following the disposal of GE’s entire holding in the Group. In
September 2006, Fred Maguire stepped down as Chairman and from the Board; and in January 2007, David Blakeman
retired as Director and Company Secretary. Both had been with the Group for over twenty years.
On behalf of my colleagues on the Board, I would like to thank them for their valuable contribution to the Group’s growth,
particularly in the last few years.
Tony Bramall, who has a wealth of motor industry knowledge, was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director at
an extraordinary general meeting in June 2006 and Phil White was appointed Chairman, replacing Fred Maguire, in
September 2006.
We welcome Phil and Tony to the Board during this exciting period of the next stage of the growth of the Group.
Outlook
2007 has started positively. In Northern Ireland, January is a key month for new car registrations and I am delighted to report
a strong performance ahead of what was a solid performance in 2006.
The critical month of March has started very well with new cars delivered in the first week of March ahead of last year on a
like-for-like basis.
We have a number of acquisition opportunities under review. We intend to use our strong balance sheet and cash flow to
make suitable and earnings-enhancing acquisitions across all three business areas.
Our continuing success is a testament to the effectiveness of our approach and the strategy we have been implementing
for a number of years. Going forward we remain committed to broadening our revenue streams, further developing our
close relationships with our manufacturer partners and maximising the performance and efficiencies of our franchises
through our decentralised management structure and market area strategy.
We look forward to the year with confidence.
H. K. Surgenor 
Chief  Executive
12 March 2007
(opposite top) Charles Hurst Land Rover – Park Royal  (acquisition)
(opposite bottom)  Lookers Vauxhall – St. Helens  (new build)
Chief Executive’s Review 2006
(continued from page 14) 20
Lookers plc Report & Financial Statements 2006
