 5
Lookers plc Report & Financial Statements 2006
“...we have been able 
to deliver excellent returns
to our shareholders
over the year.”
Phil White 
Chairman
Chairman’s 
Review 2006 6
Lookers plc Report & Financial Statements 2006
Achieving 
customers for life... 7
Lookers plc Report & Financial Statements 2006
I am pleased to report that Lookers has continued to achieve excellent progress in 2006 resulting in significant
growth in profits, earnings and dividends. These results have been achieved both through strong organic growth
across our complementary business streams and also through the successful integration of acquisitions across the
business.
Financial Highlights and Dividend
The Group has continued to grow both organically and by acquisition across all its businesses. Turnover has advanced by
16 per cent to over £1.4 billion. Adjusted* profit before tax at £26.4 million has increased by 47 per cent against £18.0 million
last year and is comfortably ahead of our own forecast of £25.1 million announced in April 2006. Strong cash flow from
operations of £55.7 million was generated and year end gearing remained flat at 79 per cent despite spending nearly £50
million on acquisitions and investment in new and refurbished facilities. Our new retail and used retail sales continue to
outperform the market and have increased by 5 per cent and 6 per cent respectively. Given this very strong performance
and our confidence in our future prospects, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.2p, making a total dividend for
the year of 3.5p, an increase of 15 per cent over last year.
Corporate Developments
Despite the significant corporate distraction in the early part of 2006, we remained focused on growing the business. During
the year we acquired seventeen prestige outlets including Chrysler, Jeep, Dodge, Land Rover and Lexus. We were delighted
to be awarded a Mercedes-Benz franchise market area which we now operate in four locations. We were also awarded the
Land Rover franchise for Glasgow North, bringing the total of additional prestige outlets to eighteen. These developments
further strengthen the Group’s franchise portfolio, particularly in the South East of England.
In line with our stated strategy, we continue to develop complementary business streams alongside our franchise business.
In January 2006 we launched our third Used Car Supermarket in the South East in Essex. In the second half of 2006 we
acquired five acres in a key location in Sheffield to develop a major facility to replace the existing premises which our parts
distribution business, FPS, had outgrown. This facility became operational in the last few weeks of December 2006 as
planned.
We remain ambitious to grow our businesses and will continue to make sound acquisitions and investments which are
earnings enhancing and deliver our required level of returns.
The Future
Lookers is well positioned to continue to make good progress in today’s trading environment. Our markets offer excellent
growth prospects and remain fragmented. Due to the broad revenue streams we enjoy, benefiting from strong contributions
from both used cars and aftersales as well as new cars, a small downturn forecast in the new car market over 2007 will not
detract from our ambitious growth plans. In recent years Lookers has consistently outperformed the new car market and we
are confident that this will continue into 2007.
January is the key registration month in Northern Ireland and 2007 has seen our Charles Hurst business record its best ever
start to the year. Moreover, the number of new vehicles delivered so far in March and the orders still to be delivered by the
dealerships on the mainland UK indicate a good performance for March leading to a strong first quarter for the year.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the team at Lookers for their unstinting support in what was an eventful
year. The whole Board recognises that these results could not have been achieved without their hard work and dedication.
I would also like to thank our shareholders for supporting management during this period. As a result, we have been able to
deliver excellent returns to our shareholders over the year. As a team, we have delivered an excellent performance which
firmly reinforces our position as one of the leading consolidators in the motor retail industry.
Fred Maguire retired as Chairman of the Board after more than twenty years with the Group and I wish him well in his
retirement.
On a personal note, I was delighted to be welcomed onto the Board in September 2006, during an exciting period of growth
and development for Lookers and look forward to contributing to the Group’s future success.
P. M. White
Chairman
12 March 2007
Chairman’s Review 2006
*Adjusted pre exceptional items, goodwill impairment and amortisation of intangible assets. 8
Lookers plc Report & Financial Statements 2006
