 8
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
T
he 2009 *underlying profit before tax of £28.3 million, up from £14 million in 2008, 
was a record result for the company and was delivered despite an economic 
backdrop that saw the lowest new car market since 1995, a declining used car 
market and a reducing 1 – 3 year aftersales vehicle parc.  
t he key factors in driving performance recovery throughout the business were:
 • strong used vehicle sales volumes and margin growth; 
 • new vehicles sales volume growth, which was 19% ahead of the market;
 • strong turnover and margin growth in our parts division and a strong 
  aftersales performance in the motor division; and
 • managed reductions within our business cost base.
t he strength of our underlying profit performance in difficult market circumstances gives us 
confidence that we can continue to grow the business in 2010, despite short-term market 
conditions remaining challenging. t he business is exceptionally well placed to take full 
advantage of improving economic conditions in the medium term.
OPera Tin G review
Motor division
o ur motor division consists of 122 franchise dealerships representing 
32 marques from 73 sites.  t he business generates revenue from 
the sale of new cars, the sale of used cars, vehicle servicing and 
repair, and the sale of franchise parts. in 2009 our motor division 
increased profit before tax to £25 million from £5 million in 2008.
Restructuring in late 2008 removed 21 underperforming franchise 
businesses, reduced headcount in ongoing businesses by 6% and 
reduced the working capital base. t hese actions have recalibrated 
the business so that it can be successful at a reduced level of 
market activity.
t he restructuring has radically improved the profile of our 
business, enhancing sales and aftersales throughputs per 
business. During 2009 we have made further changes 
which have strengthened activity levels per site with 
the addition of 8 incremental franchises within existing 
facilities.
cHief execuTive’S 
Review
Peter jones
2009 Review
l o o k e r s p l c A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s 2 0 0 9
8 9
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
“THe 2009 
*underl Yin G 
Pr Ofi T Bef Ore 
Tax Of £28.3 
Milli On, 
uP fr OM £14 
Milli On in 
2008, wa S 
a rec Ord 
re Sul T f Or 
THe c OMPan Y”
pete R jones, 
chief executive
l o o k e r s p l c A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s 2 0 0 9
2009 Review
9 10
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
new c ars
t he new car market fell 6% to just under 2 million cars, the lowest new car market 
since 1995, despite the market boost of 284 thousand sales stimulated by the 
government scrappage scheme.
Group new car sales of 61,372 cars increased by 13% compared to 2008 
levels and were 19% ahead of the u K market, improving our market share 
to 3.1% from 2.6% in 2008.  w ithin the new car market sub sectors, our 
share of the private retail sector is now 4.2%, our share of government 
scrappage sales is 2.6% and our share of the company car sales sector is 
2.5% (2008: 1.3%). 
Gross margins for new cars reduced to 8.1% (2008: 9.3%), primarily due 
to the effect of margin dilution from sales under the Government scrappage 
scheme, along with an increase in corporate sector sales.
“wiTHin THe new car Marke T SuB 
Sec TOr S, Our SHare Of THe Priva Te 
re Tail Sec TOr i S nOw 4.2%”
pete R jones, chief executive
l o o k e r s p l c A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s 2 0 0 9
2009 Review
10 11
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
chevrolet 3
citroën 4
fiat 2
ford 9
hyundai  2
Kia  3
Mazda  1
nissan 4
peugeot  4
Renault  10
seat 1
toyota 5
vauxhall 16
volkswagen 11
Proportion invested in  
volume brands
BMw 1
Yamaha 1
Proportion invested in  
Motorcycle brands
pRestiGe 45
voluMe 75
Moto Rc Ycles 2
Alfa Romeo 1
Aston Martin  1
Bentley  1
chrysler 1
Dodge  1
ferrari   1
honda  6
jaguar  4
jeep 1
land Rover  8
lexus   2
Maserati   1
Mercedes-Benz   8
saab  2
smart  4
volvo  3
Proportion invested in 
Prestige brands
Overview of
franchise breakdown
l o o k e r s p l c A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s 2 0 0 9
2009 Review
11 12
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
2009 Review
l o o k e r s p l c A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s 2 0 0 9
12 13
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
used c ars
t he total used car market in the u K declined by circa 6% in 
2009. Group sales of 42,378 vehicles were in contrast up by 6% 
on 2008 levels, well ahead of the market and we continue to gain 
market share. Gross margins improved from 8% in 2008 up to 
11% in 2009 and this performance was delivered from a much 
leaner stock base through improved stock turn.
t he used car market, which has annual sales of circa 7 million 
vehicles per annum, remains a huge area of opportunity for the 
group. t hrough improved sourcing and a broader stock mix on 
our forecourts, we expect to take advantage of the stable market 
conditions in the used car sector to enhance our volumes and 
make further improvements in gross margin.
aftersales
Despite a declining vehicle parc within the 1 – 3 year vehicle 
sector, the group improved like for like aftersales revenue by 4%, 
held gross margin levels at 43%, and improved operating profits 
by 6%. t his resulted in the further strengthening of dealership 
aftersales profitability and further improved our share of the 
aftermarket opportunity.
o ur continued aftersales growth has been underpinned by further 
improvements in our customer relationship marketing centre 
processes and the deployment of electronic health checks in 
all businesses. t his enables us to identify and optimise service 
and repair requirements on all vehicles visiting us for aftersales 
work, which combined with our determination to deliver excellent 
customer service, are key factors in strengthening and optimising 
customer retention.
Dealership representation continues to consolidate in the u K 
market and this has the effect of strengthening our franchise 
representation per site. t hese factors, combined with our focus 
on increasing the retention of aftersales customers with vehicles 
over three years old, gives us further confidence that we can 
continue to grow our share of the lucrative aftermarket business 
opportunity.
Motor division: further restructuring
During the second half of 2008, we restructured the motor 
division and this delivered significant cost savings during 2009. 
towards the end of 2009, the group took further actions in 
respect of the motor division central cost base, reviewing central 
marketing, group it and systems, which has reduced our central 
cost base by £1.8 million, the full benefit of which will be realised 
in 2010.  we have also improved buying terms with specific 
service providers which will deliver savings of £0.8 million in 
2010.
t he group is currently in final negotiations to add a further six 
franchises to current locations. t his will strengthen throughputs 
per site with minimal uplift to our fixed cost base, resulting in 
operational improvements and increased profitability.
As referred to in the c hairman’s review, in March 2010 we refined 
the management structure of the motor division with Andy Bruce 
being appointed Managing Director and Brian schumacker being 
appointed as o perations Director for Business Development. 
t his will further improve our focus on the franchise operations 
and provide additional impetus on delivering programmes to 
underpin future business growth.
2009 Review
13 14
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
“f PS, THe Onl Y 
na TiOnal 
di STri BuTOr 
Of quali TY 
Branded 
au TOMOTive 
Hard Par TS, 
delivered 
STr OnG 
re Sul TS” 
2009 Review
l o o k e r s p l c A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s 2 0 0 9
14 15
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
t he equity fund raising exercise undertaken earlier in the year 
has transformed the group’s balance sheet enabling us to take 
advantage of opportunistic acquisitions in 2010. we are actively 
progressing talks to add incremental brands to strengthen 
the group portfolio and to strengthen our representation with 
specific brands where we currently have limited representation in 
comparison to their share of the u K market.
Parts division
t he group’s independent parts division operates through three 
companies, each supplying hard parts to the aftermarket, the 
customer base being primarily motor factors who, in turn supply 
the independent repair sector.
t he total vehicle car parc in the u K market is now over 30 
million vehicles, with just over 6.5 million of these being in the 
conventionally, dealership dominated 1 to 3 year vehicle parc.  in 
contrast to the younger vehicle parc, the 4 year plus vehicle parc 
in the u K continues to grow and the outlook for our independent 
parts operations is good as each of the businesses continues to 
take an increased share of a growing market opportunity.
o ur independent parts division continues to go from strength 
to strength, achieving record results, with all three businesses 
producing record levels of operating profit. t his performance 
is even more impressive as it follows a record performance in 
2008. t urnover for the division increased by 18%, operating profit 
increased by 34% and profit before tax also increased by 34%, 
from £8.34 million to £11.16 million. t he business continues 
to benefit as the slower demand for new cars translates into a 
greater need by consumers for car repairs to their current vehicle 
as they choose to maintain rather than exchange that vehicle for 
a new vehicle.  
fps , the only national distributor of quality branded automotive 
hard parts delivered strong results with turnover increasing by 
17% and operating profit of £7.9 million representing an increase 
of 38%. t he business now operates from 19 regional depots 
supported by our n ational Distribution c entre in sheffield. 
two depots were relocated during the year to new, expanded 
premises which allowed the full range of products to be carried 
at more locations, including exhausts at all locations for the first 
time. Growth was also supported by the introduction of new 
product lines whilst efficiency benefits were achieved by an 
increase in electronic order capture and information exchange.
Apec, a market leader in the u K and irish markets for aftermarket 
braking components, also had a very successful year overcoming 
the pressures caused by the weakness in sterling to produce a 
record result. t urnover increased by 23% and operating profit 
increased by 9% to £1.9 million. A significant customer contract 
was renewed during the year and the company continues to 
develop hydraulic braking products. n ew marketing initiatives 
and the launch of a new website helped strengthen the 
company’s position as market leader in terms of product range 
and availability.
Btn , a leading supplier and provider of technical support 
and servicing of turbochargers also delivered an excellent 
performance in 2009. t urnover increased by 21% as the 
company continues to expand sales to motor factors and new 
specialist customers. A move to new premises during the year 
provides modern facilities to enhance technical and service 
support to customers and provide a basis for further growth in 
this expanding market.
2009 Review
15 16
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
OuTl OOk
Both the Motor Division and parts Division have made a good 
start to the year. we have continued to outperform the new car 
market and our used car performance continues to be strong. 
f urthermore we have a healthy new car order book for March and 
aftersales continue to perform well with the result that the Motor 
Division is ahead of both budget and prior year. Moreover the 
independent parts division is again showing further year on year 
progress and is in line with budget. we therefore expect the result 
for the first quarter to be ahead of both budget and last year.
w hilst economic conditions remain uncertain, our strong 
performance in 2009, our market leading parts division, together 
with the actions that have been successfully completed in the 
Motor Division to reduce costs, demonstrates the resilience 
of the group’s diversified business model and leaves us well 
positioned to continue to trade successfully.
we continue to focus on areas where we can improve the 
performance of the group’s franchised outlets including 
consolidation of existing sites and adding dual franchises 
where this is appropriate. we will also focus on targeted 
and selective acquisitions to further improve our franchise 
representation. we continue to invest in new marketing initiatives, 
including the adoption of the l ookers brand across all mainland 
car dealerships, together with a relaunch of our website and 
enhanced digital marketing. t he parts Division continues to 
benefit from the addition of new product lines and the slower 
demand for new cars continues to boost car repairs and demand 
for parts. 
t he successful equity fund raising in j uly has strengthened the 
group’s balance sheet providing greater flexibility to ensure that 
we are well placed and focussed to take advantage of strategic 
growth opportunities that may arise and we are confident that 
the company will emerge from the current downturn a stronger 
and more efficient business which is well placed to deliver future 
growth.
Peter Jones
c hief executive
9 March 2010
2009 Review 17
Lookers plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
2009 Review
l o o k e r s p l c A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s 2 0 0 9
17
