 L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
9
STRATEGIC AND OPERATIONAL REVIEW 
BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY
Business model 
With a group turnover of £2.4 billion in 
2013, Lookers is one of the leading motor 
retail and aftersales groups in the UK. Our 
operations are carried out across all four 
UK countries and Ireland, with a presence in 
most of the major population centres. We sell 
approximately 117,000 new and used cars per 
year and in addition, we have a very significant 
independent parts distribution business, which 
is the leader in its sector of the market.
As noted above, the group operates through two 
distinct divisions, the motor division and the parts 
division and details of each division are explained 
in further detail below. However, operating in 
two distinctly separate sectors within the UK 
motor retail market gives us a unique and diverse 
business structure. This differentiates Lookers in 
the motor retail sector with the parts business 
providing a high quality, higher margin earnings 
stream that has greater stability than the new 
and used car markets, which can sometimes 
be subject to volatility. The group’s business 
activities, financial condition, results of operations 
or the company’s share price could be affected 
by certain principal risks or uncertainties which 
are included in the directors’ report section of the 
2013 annual report and accounts.
Motor division
The motor division consists of 119 franchised 
dealerships representing 32 marques from 70 
locations. The business generates revenue from 
the sale of new and used cars and aftersales 
activities. Aftersales represents the servicing, 
repair and sale of franchised parts to customers’ 
vehicles. The new car market in the UK has 
been approximately 2 million new cars sold per 
annum during the past five years and our share 
of the retail sector of this market is just over 
4%. The used car market in the UK has annual 
transactions of approximately 6.7 million vehicles 
and represents a major opportunity for us to 
increase volumes in this part of the market. The 
aftersales market applies to the overall number of 
cars in use on UK roads, which is referred to as 
the UK car parc. This consists of approximately 
30 million vehicles where approximately 20% or 
six million vehicles are under three years old and 
these vehicles are primarily the market which 
is catered for by the franchised motor dealers, 
including our motor division. In recent years the 
internet has become increasingly important and 
is now the primary means for our customers to 
research and determine which new or used car 
they are interested in buying. Our website and 
associated digital marketing channels are now a 
very important part of the business.
Parts division
Our parts division operates in the independent 
aftermarket sector of the UK motor retail market, 
where we operate through three distinct operating 
companies which supply automotive parts to the 
independent automotive aftermarket, where we 
operate from 22 locations, providing a national 
network to cover the whole of the UK. This means 
that our customers are predominantly motor 
factors who are the final part of the distribution 
chain and who distribute parts to the independent 
non franchised repairers. The parts division is 
typically supplying parts to 80% of the UK vehicle 
parc where the vehicles are over three years 
old and therefore operates in a different part of 
the market to the franchised dealerships. This 
represents a market of approximately 24 million 
cars in the UK and each of the three companies 
in our parts division are market leaders in their 
segment of the market. 
Business strategy 
The company’s strategy is to operate a diverse 
business in the UK motor sector. This includes 
operating with a wide range of manufacturer 
partners across a wide geographical area, both 
of which help to reduce exposure to anomalies or 
fluctuations in demand, which may affect specific 
manufacturers or locations. The independent 
parts distribution business also provides further 
diversity as the revenue and profitability of 
this business are less subject to volatility that 
sometimes affects the demand for new and used 
cars.
We aim to grow the business by a combination 
of organic growth in the existing business, where 
there are many opportunities for increasing 
revenue, as well as from targeted and selective 
acquisitions in both the motor and parts divisions. 
We aim to be recognised as the UK’s most 
professional and successful motor retail and 
aftersales service group by our customers, 
employees, business partners and shareholders. 
We strive to deliver sector leading value whilst 
providing our customers with market leading 
customer service, optimising customer retention 
and being an outstanding company that achieves 
our mission of customers for life.
2 01 3 REVIEW
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
REVIEW
“However, 
operating in 
two distinctly 
separate sectors 
within the UK 
motor retail 
market gives us 
a unique and 
diverse business 
structure. ”
ANDY BRUCE, 
Chief Executive L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
10
2 01 3 REVIEW
MOTOR VEHICLES
ALFA ROMEO 1 n
ASTON MARTIN  1 n
AUDI 5 nnnnn
BENTLEY  1 n
CHRYSLER 1 n
CITROËN 5 nnnnn
DACIA 6 nnnnnn
FERRARI   1 n
FIAT 1 n
FORD 7 nnnnnnn
HONDA  3 nnn
HYUNDAI  2 nn
JAGUAR  4 nnnn
JEEP 2 nn
KIA  3 nnn
LAND ROVER  10 nnnnnnnnnn
LEXUS   2 nn
MASERATI   1 n
MANUFACTURER BRANDS    Our MOTOR DIVISION consists of                     119 Franchise Dealerships representing 31 marques from 70 sites
Fiat 500L Trekking Skoda Rapid SE Connect
Jaguar F-TYPE L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
11
2 01 3 REVIEW
MERCEDES-BENZ   6 nnnnnn
NISSAN 5 nnnnn
PEUGEOT  4 nnnn
RENAULT  6 nnnnnn
SEAT 2 nn
SKODA 2 nn
SMART  4 nnnn
TOYOTA 3 nnn
VAUXHALL 13 nnnnnnnnnnnnn
VOLKSWAGEN 9 nnnnnnnnn
VOLVO  3 nnn
MOTORCYCLES
BMW 1 n
YAMAHA 1 n
MANUFACTURER BRANDS    Our MOTOR DIVISION consists of                     119 Franchise Dealerships representing 31 marques from 70 sites
Peugeot 2008 Vauxhall Insignia
Audi RS 7 L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
12
Business review
Summary of financial and non financial KPIs:
Performance
The motor division delivered another excellent 
trading performance during the year and the 
parts division made a good recovery, returning 
to growth with a strong result for the year. The 
group delivered record results for a fifth year with 
*adjusted profit before tax of £48.1 million (2012: 
£38.0 million). I am delighted with this result 
which I believe is a significant achievement even 
against the background of the improving new car 
market in the UK.
The key elements of this creditable achievement 
were: 
• a significant increase in new car retail sales at 
improved margins; 
• a significant growth in used car volumes and 
margins; 
• improvement in both aftersales turnover and 
margin; 
• growth in both turnover and profit in the parts 
division against improving but competitive 
market conditions. 
We have now had five successive years of 
increased profits, the majority of which have been 
delivered in restricted market circumstances. 
Growth in the UK new car market in 2013 
was encouraging and this, together with our 
performance over recent years, gives us further 
confidence in our ability to grow the business 
2 01 3 REVIEW
Land Rover, Chipperfield
Land Rover, Chipperfield Taggarts Land Rover, Glasgow South
(*Adjusted before 
amortisation of 
intangible assets and 
debt issue costs)
  2013 2012
 FINANCIAL
 Turnover £2,464.5m £2,056.6m
 Gross Profit £335.8m £303.3m
 Gross margin 13.6% 14.7%
 Operating profit £58.4m £49.2m
 Operating margin 2.4% 2.4%
 *Adjusted profit before tax £48.1m £38.0m
 *Adjusted net margin 1.95% 1.8%
 Earnings per share 9.3p 6.77p
 Net debt £43.1m £48.2m
 Gearing 19% 24%
 NON FINANCIAL
 UK new car market 2.26m 2.05m
 Group new car sales 63,608 55,313
 Share of UK market 2.8% 2.7%
 Group used car sales 53,713 44,748
 Group employees 5,772 5,489 L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
13
2 01 3 REVIEW
again in 2014. As economic conditions improve 
further, we are well placed to take advantage of 
growth opportunities in the new and used car 
markets, which will also in turn increase demand 
for aftersales and parts, as the number of cars 
under three years old continues to rise. 
OPERATING REVIEW
MOTOR DIVISION
I am pleased to report that the motor division 
increased its profit before tax by 34% to £42.6 
million, a record for the business and a significant 
increase over the prior year’s result of £31.7 
million.
We continue to improve the balance of our 
portfolio of franchise representation and during 
2013 we sold or closed five underperforming 
businesses and acquired three new businesses.
On 16 May 2013, we acquired Shields 
Automotive, which operates a significant Land 
Rover dealership in South Glasgow and was 
acquired for a cash consideration of £8.8 million. 
This included a number of surplus freehold 
properties, two of which were sold in June for 
£4.3 million, reducing the net consideration paid 
for the business.
On 1 October 2013, we acquired Chipperfield 
Land Rover, which operates a significant Land 
Rover dealership in Hertfordshire, for a cash 
consideration of £10.5 million. This is an important 
development in the group’s representation 
of the Land Rover brand in the South East 
complementing our existing Land Rover 
businesses in Battersea and West London.
On 11 December 2013, we completed the 
purchase of a Volkswagen Commercial Vehicle 
business in Glasgow which represents this 
franchise for the important and major City of 
Glasgow and the surrounding area.
New Cars
The UK new car market increased by 10.8% to 
2.26 million cars in the period, with the new car 
retail market increasing by 15.6% and the fleet 
market increasing by 6.7%. Lookers core retail 
new car sales increased by 19.0% compared to 
2012 levels, on a like for like basis. In the fleet 
sector, our volumes reduced by 3.0%, as we 
continued to focus on higher margin business. 
Whilst volumes were slightly lower, overall gross 
profit from fleet business increased in the year.
Gross profit per unit on new retail cars increased 
by 6.5% compared to the prior year, whilst gross 
profit per unit on fleet business increased by 10% 
compared to the previous year. The new retail 
market continues to be strong and our order 
“We have 
now had five 
successive years 
of increased 
profits, the 
majority of 
which have 
been delivered 
in restricted 
market 
circumstances.”
ANDY BRUCE, 
Chief Executive
Taggarts Land Rover, Glasgow South L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
14
2 01 3 REVIEW
“The internet 
increasingly 
dominates 
consumers’ 
research and 
we continue 
to migrate 
marketing 
expenditure 
from offline, 
traditional 
media to online 
channels. ”
ANDY BRUCE, 
Chief Executive
loyalty and retention, have also increased 
significantly. These initiatives help us to identify 
and optimise service and repair requirements 
on all vehicles visiting us which, combined with 
our commitment to deliver excellent customer 
service and enhance customer experience, are 
key factors in maximising our ‘customers for life’ 
strategy, to strengthen the business and further 
improve profitability.
Business Development
Marketing strategy
The internet increasingly dominates consumers’ 
research and we continue to migrate marketing 
expenditure from offline, traditional media to 
online channels. Our visitor and enquiry levels 
continue to show significant increases, not only 
as more consumers research their purchases 
online, but as a result of our ongoing investment 
in improving our website. The website is now 
fully compatible with mobile devices and we are 
enhancing our digital showroom with extended 
hours to include live chat, increasing use of video 
and full engagement with social media.
Customer satisfaction 
During 2013 we launched our Customers for Life 
strategy, which is designed to further improve 
our level of customer experience, retention and 
referral. Much of our focus has been on ensuring 
our staff satisfaction is enhanced as well as 
conducting extensive customer research to 
continually refine our offering to them. The early 
results of our refreshed approach have been very 
encouraging.
Employee development
We recognise that our people are our key asset 
that allows us to deliver our strategy and we 
continue to invest in an enhanced training and 
development programme. We have increased 
the number of training courses available to all 
staff, including the innovative use of an e-learning 
platform as well as further improvements to our 
structured and formal management development 
programme. This has been aligned with our new 
customer experience strategy to ensure our staff 
develop the skills needed to deliver enhanced 
levels of customer satisfaction.
PARTS DIVISION
As referred to earlier in the Chairman’s review, 
our parts division experienced challenging market 
conditions in 2012, although managed to maintain 
turnover in that year. I am therefore very pleased 
to report that the parts division increased both 
turnover and profits compared to the prior year, 
against a background of an improving market 
although one that continues to be competitive.
Turnover for the division increased by £10.5m, 
an increase of 6% compared to the prior year as 
we continue to expand the business by investing 
in existing and new product lines. Whilst sales 
volumes increased, this was accompanied by a 
small increase in margin. Overheads, however, 
were carefully controlled resulting in an increase 
in profit before tax of 6% to £11.8 million, 
take for the important month of March is tracking 
ahead of plan.
Used Cars
Whilst used car transactions in the UK were 
stable at approximately 6.7 million vehicles, group 
sales volumes increased by an excellent 20% 
compared to 2012 levels and gross profit per 
unit increased by 3.6%. This was a very positive 
performance, particularly taking into account the 
strong increases in the previous year. We have 
continued to follow a robust stocking policy to 
deliver increased stock turn as well as increasing 
our resource for sourcing good quality used car 
stock. These policies have been in place for some 
time now and it is encouraging to see that we are 
continuing to improve volumes and margins. A 
further factor, which is helping to improve used 
car volumes, is the increasing number of leads 
being generated from the group’s website, which 
have increased by 20% compared to last year. 
This is an area in which we shall continue to invest 
so that our website maintains its position as one 
of the best in the industry.
We continue to believe that the used car market 
represents a significant opportunity for the group. 
By continuing to follow our policies, which have 
resulted in this success, we expect to take 
advantage of the stable market conditions in the 
used car sector to continue to improve volumes 
and margins.
Aftersales
Turnover in the important area of aftersales 
increased by 4% and this has benefited from 
an increase in the vehicle parc of cars under 
three years old, a trend which will continue 
due to the increase in the new car market. This 
was accompanied by an increase in margin 
from 40.2% to 41.6%. This is a positive result 
which demonstrates the success of our continued 
investment in technology and procedures to 
further improve customer retention and average 
sales value per customer visit. In particular, we 
have made a number of further improvements to 
our electronic vehicle health check system across 
the whole motor division. Sales of service plans, 
where customers commit to longer term contracts 
for vehicle servicing, which improves customer 
FPS Distribution Centre, 
Sheffield L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
15
compared to £11.1 million in the previous year. 
Our parts division continues to make a significant 
contribution to group earnings where it represents 
25% of group profit before tax and also produces 
a consistent and relatively high net margin of 6%.
FPS, our national warehouse distributor of quality 
branded automotive parts, is the largest company 
in the parts division and represents almost 75% 
of divisional turnover. Turnover increased by 6% 
with profit before tax increasing by a similar 
amount. The increase in turnover resulted from 
active pricing management leading to higher 
product volumes in conjunction with new product 
development and range extension. The business 
continues to benefit from efficiency improvements 
particularly in relation to process improvement 
projects.
Apec Braking, the aftermarket leader in the UK for 
‘dry’ braking (pads and discs), had a difficult year 
in 2012 due to reduced demand, resulting from 
significant competition in the market, particularly 
from lower cost, lower quality products. I 
am therefore pleased to report an improved 
performance for Apec with turnover increasing by 
8% compared to the prior year. Demand for core 
products was stable and a secondary tier braking 
product was introduced in the period, which 
helped to secure key customers and protect 
the business from lower priced competitors. 
The increased gross profit, together with careful 
overhead control, resulted in an excellent 
improvement in profit before tax which was 11% 
higher than the previous year.
BTN Turbo, the UK’s leading distributor of 
turbochargers and supplier of related value added 
services, continued to experience competitive 
trading conditions. However, the focus on 
developing business with key customers and 
the expansion of recently introduced and new 
product lines resulted in an increase in turnover 
of 2% compared to the prior year. This was 
accompanied by an improvement in margins 
which, combined with good overhead control 
resulted in an improvement in profit before tax 
of 4%. Whilst the sector remains competitive, 
the business continues to pursue development 
opportunities within the turbo and ancillary 
products area of the market.
GROUP OUTLOOK
The group has made a good start to the current 
financial year and we continue to outperform the 
new retail car market. We have a healthy order 
book for the delivery of new cars in the important 
month of March and aftersales continues to 
perform well, with the result that the group is 
ahead of both budget and prior year. We therefore 
expect the result for the first quarter to be ahead 
of both budget and last year.
The new car market is expected to show further 
growth in 2014 and the used car market is stable. 
This, together with the group’s strong performance 
in 2013 and the previous four years, provide a firm 
foundation on which to deliver further growth 
in the current year. The continuing increase in 
the vehicle parc of cars less than three years 
old provides further opportunities for increasing 
revenue in the high margin aftersales sector of 
our business. These factors, together with the 
broad base of our franchise representation leave 
us very well positioned for future growth. The 
acquisition of Shields and Chipperfield Land 
Rover should make a good contribution this year 
and we continue to focus on the areas in which 
we can improve the performance of the group’s 
franchised outlets, such as used car sales. As 
in previous years we continue to target selective 
acquisitions to further improve our franchise 
representation.
The parts division has made good progress with 
increased profits, which together with continued 
investment in new product lines, improved facilities 
and systems, leaves the business in a stronger 
position for further growth and development. We 
also continue to seek appropriate acquisition 
targets in the parts aftermarket.
The group balance sheet continues to be 
strengthened by strong operational cash flow. 
We have substantial headroom in our new and 
increased bank facilities with net debt continuing 
to be closely controlled and at a lower level than 
both budget and the start of 2013. This provides 
secure funding capacity for several years and 
financial security to grow the business through 
further strategic acquisitions in both the motor 
and parts divisions.
Andy Bruce 
Chief Executive 
5 March 2014
“The group 
has made a 
good start to 
the current 
financial year 
and we continue 
to outperform 
the new retail 
car market.”
ANDY BRUCE, 
Chief Executive
2 01 3 REVIEW
L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
15
Nissan GT-R L ookers plc A nnual R eport & A ccounts 2013
16
“ Gross profit of £336 million was £32 million higher than 
the previous year, with the growth coming from new and 
used cars as well as acquisitions.”
 ROBIN GREGSON, Finance Director
2 01 3 REVIEW
Maserati Ghibli
