 10 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
BUSINESS REVIEW
Overview
2008 has been a very significant year for Low 
& Bonar, encompassing unprecedented levels 
of strategic refocusing, raw material volatility 
and changes to the economic background. I am 
pleased to report that the Group has entered 
what will be very testing times — but also times 
of great opportunity — in good financial and 
strategic shape. In the course of this highly 
active year, the financial performance was 
equally satisfying — Group profit before tax 
from continuing operations (before amortisation 
and non-recurring items) grew to £16.0m on 
Group revenues of £335.2m, an increase of 
54% over the 2007 figure restated to reflect the 
disposal of the Floors Division. Consequently , 
earnings per share from continuing operations 
before amortisation and non-recurring items 
increased 60% to 7.37p (2007: 4.62p). This 
growth was underpinned not only by the 
maiden contribution of MTX, acquired in 
January 2008, but also by a healthy growth 
in Divisional operating margins from 8.5% to 
9.6%. Given that the majority of our profits are 
earned in euros, there was also a benefit from 
translating results from euros to sterling.
Key Themes of 2008
Strategic refocusing 
Commencing with the completion of the 
acquisition of MTX in January 2008, there have 
been four events this year completing the 
move to a more strategically focused Group 
based on the technical textiles industry. MTX, 
a leading producer of technical coated fabrics 
based in Germany and the Czech Republic, 
was acquired on 3rd January 2008 for 
€163.0m. It produces PVC-coated materials for 
the transport, architectural, print and general 
industrial sectors and operates in a segment 
that offers distinct scaling opportunities.
On 8th January 2008, we announced the 
acquisition of Westbond Ltd, a producer 
of fusion-bonded carpet tiles, for a total 
consideration of £10.9m. During our period of 
ownership, it performed in line with internal 
expectations and, as envisaged, proved highly 
complementary to our existing Tessera carpet 
tile business. Westbond was successfully 
integrated into our Floors Division within six 
months of the acquisition.
In April 2008, the Group established 
Bonar Emirates Technical Yarns Industries 
LLC (BETY), a joint venture company, to 
manufacture artificial grass yarns and carpet 
backing yarns based in Abu Dhabi. Through 
this initiative, the Group will be able to expand 
its existing European capacity in artificial grass 
yarn production to meet the expected high 
growth in demand for this product, and will 
have ready access to new markets in the Gulf 
and Middle East region. It will also provide 
access to lower input costs such as raw 
materials, energy and labour. We have treated 
BETY as a subsidiary in the Group accounts as 
we hold economic control. 
In September 2008, the Company completed 
the sale of the Group’s Floors Division 
(including Westbond) at a value of £123.0m on 
a cash-free, debt-free basis. This was a very 
significant change to the Group’s profile: Bonar 
Floors had been a valuable and important part 
of Low & Bonar for over 30 years. In the last 
few years the business had grown substantially, 
both organically and through acquisition, built 
a strong management team and developed 
a clear strategy, whilst generating very 
good margins. Nonetheless, the Board was 
supportive of the disposal because it believed 
that not only did the offer represent good 
value for the Company and shareholders, but 
Paul Forman
Group Chief Executive
Architecture textile manufactured from VALMEX
®
 
structure membrane.
Waterproof bituminous rooﬁ ng membrane on Colback
®
 
reinforcement.
Megawatti yacht built with Enka
®
-Fusion ﬂ ow medium.
The Board is confident that the disposal 
of Bonar Floors will help Low & Bonar to 
meet its long-term strategic objective of 
creating a leading global performance 
materials business. 11 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
oil price and demand for individual polymers 
fell. We see no reason to assume that in the 
medium term this volatility will lessen, but are 
confident we can continue to maintain healthy 
margins as a consequence of the added value 
we provide to our customers and our leading 
market positions.
Changes to the economic background
We consider one of the strategic strengths of 
the Group to be its diversity of geographies 
served and the variety of end-markets, 
ranging from civil engineering to leisure to 
horticulture. We have been able to build 
on our strong positions in niche markets by 
acquiring businesses that take us into new 
or complementary sectors that are set for 
growth, driven by factors such as legislation 
and environmental concerns. This means 
that we have seen volume growth in the 
technical textiles industry generally, and in our 
businesses in particular, above that of GDP. 
Nonetheless, changes to the overall economic 
environment do have a significant impact 
on short-term customer demand levels and 
we witnessed a clear weakening in overall 
demand from September onwards. However, 
we believe that, for the reasons outlined above, 
some of this impact can be mitigated and that 
indeed additional opportunities to gain market 
share will present themselves. We also believe 
that the trend growth rate in the industry of 
one to two times GDP should reassert itself 
over time.
also that it freed up management resource 
and cash to invest in developing the Group 
further as a leading technical textiles business. 
The disposal also reduced significantly the 
Group’s debt levels. The Board is confident that 
the disposal of Bonar Floors will help Low & 
Bonar to meet its long-term strategic objective 
of creating a leading global performance 
materials business. The strategy will be 
discussed in more detail later in this section.
Raw material volatility
2008 was particularly noteworthy for the 
unprecedented volatility in our key raw 
materials, oil-based polymers including 
polyethylene, polypropylene, PVC, nylon 
and polyester. This is important because the 
spend on raw materials is approximately half 
our total sales value, with oil-based polymers 
representing by far the largest item of raw 
material expenditure. Three factors are widely 
regarded as critical to influencing the cost of 
those raw materials: the supply level for each 
polymer; global demand for each; and the 
price of crude oil. All these factors have varied 
very significantly throughout the year, with new 
supply coming on stream from the Gulf region, 
demand growing and then weakening in line 
with global industrial health and the well-
documented movements in the oil price. Whilst 
we believe that the quality of our products 
and services, the strength of our customer 
relationships and our strong market positions 
all help to manage the margin implications of 
such volatility, there is necessarily at least some 
impact in the short term. We have been able 
to compensate well through actions on other 
cost areas and grow operating margins in 
2008 despite an overall negative impact from 
raw materials. The latter part of the year did 
indeed see some weakening from the historic 
high levels of August and September as the 
We consider one of the strategic 
strengths of the Group to be its diversity 
of geographies served and the variety 
of end-markets, ranging from civil 
engineering to leisure to horticulture.
Innovation 
capability
Colback ‘F2F’ — 
helping to make 
our customers more 
cost effective
Case Study
A focus on improving our 
innovation capability is 
important to ensure that we can 
offer our customers products 
and services which enhance 
their product offering and 
processes. This is vital in our 
commitment to helping make 
them more successful as 
businesses. Achieving a world 
class innovation capability is a 
continuing project but progress 
is encouraging with a number 
of recent examples highlighted 
throughout this annual report:
A unique innovation in the primary backing 
market for carpet tiles with a product 
which is light grey on one side and black 
on the other side which enables it to be a 
carrier for both light and dark coloured 
carpets which offers customers significant 
efficiency improvements and cost savings 
in their tufting operations.
Image courtesy of InterfaceFLOR   12 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED
Financial performance summary
Overall Group revenue from continuing 
operations increased by 59% to £335.2m 
(2007 (restated): £210.3m), of which £105.3m 
was the effect of the MTX acquisition. The ten 
month revenue from Bonar Floors was £96.0m, 
including Westbond, compared with a full 
12-month figure of £101.5m in 2007.
Revenue from continuing operations was 
broadly flat when adjusting for foreign 
exchange benefits as positive growth in the 
first half of the year was offset by the decline in 
the later part of the year and by the expected 
cessation of a non-strategic toll manufacturing 
contract previously held by Colbond. 
Decisions were taken at times throughout 
the year to turn away specific revenue 
opportunities if management believed the debt 
risk outweighed the reward.
Excellent work on lowering unit production 
costs, allied to good management of product 
mix and control of overhead spend, meant that 
operating profit from continuing operations 
before amortisation and non-recurring items 
grew by 89% to £26.7m (2007 (restated): 
£14.1m). MTX, which has met the stretching 
internal financial expectations established at 
the time of acquisition, contributed £12.3m 
operating profit (before amortisation and 
non-recurring items) in its 11 months as part of 
the Group, and local operating profit from the 
remaining activities grew by a very heartening 
£1.9m, or 13%, despite the major escalation of 
raw material costs. It is encouraging to report 
that Divisional operating margins consequently 
increased from 8.5% to 9.6%.
Group profit before tax from continuing 
operations (before amortisation and non-
recurring items) grew by 54% to £16.0m 
(2007 (restated): £10.4m). Net financing costs 
increased from £3.7m to £10.7m as a result 
of higher debt levels and increased bank 
margins. Operating non-recurring items were 
a net £1.4m charge, comprising a £2.3m 
charge in respect of the restructuring of MTX 
post-acquisition and a £0.9m profit on the 
disposal of surplus land. A non-operating 
non-recurring charge of £6.2m was incurred 
in respect of a potential funding deficit 
arising from the implementation of pensions 
equalisation (see note 5). Our pre-amortisation 
and non-recurring items tax rate remained 
unchanged at 29%. Earnings per share from 
continuing operations before amortisation and 
non-recurring items increased by 60% to 7.37p 
(2007 (restated): 4.62p).
Our year end net debt position of £104.5m 
(2007: £50.5m) is a reflection of the acquisition 
and disposal activities, the translation impact 
of debt primarily denominated in euros, and 
good operational cash flow benefiting from 
strong management of working capital. 
The net debt/EBITDA ratio (for bank covenant 
purposes) for the year was 2.6 times versus a 
covenant of no more than 3.25 times and the 
interest cover covenant was 3.7 times versus a 
covenant of no less than 3.0 times.
Health and safety
The Board’s rigorous commitment to health 
and safety matters remains undiminished. All 
statistics and incidents are subject to close 
scrutiny by myself and the senior management 
team. I am pleased to report that this continued 
emphasis, underpinned by training and 
selective capital investment, has meant that 
yet again the accident statistics have shown 
considerable year-on-year improvement. 
We believe that our level of accidents is half 
that experienced by our benchmark industry 
sectors across Europe and are intent on 
improving that ratio further still. MTX has 
been fully integrated into our Health & Safety 
processes and we are confident that it too will 
show the same improving trend in 2009.
Maintaining our environmental 
responsibilities
Our twin emphasis on acting responsibly in our 
manufacturing processes and on new product 
developments continues, but at an increased 
rate. Operationally, we have successfully 
developed capabilities to reuse post-
industrial polymer waste and are utilising this 
capacity wherever possible. Waste reduction 
programmes in all sites have the dual benefit 
of reducing our production unit costs and also 
improving our environmental footprint. Equally, 
we are actively engaged in programmes 
targeting reductions in usage rates across 
packaging, electricity and other utilities. Our 
products themselves are increasingly focused 
on aspects of environmental responsibility, 
such as the benefits of reducing water 
consumption and lower chemical usage from 
artificial grass. We have launched, amongst 
others, “green” roof products, 100% recycled 
carpet backings and a product for motorway 
central reservations that consumes exhaust 
emissions. Work continues on innovations in 
areas like biodegradable options for specific 
end-markets.
Employees
As has been discussed, 2008 witnessed an 
increased level of change across the Group 
compared to the already very high levels of 
the last few years. Our global dimension is 
exemplified by the fact that our 14 factories 
(including the Middle East site under 
construction) are located in nine countries 
across three continents and this provides great 
opportunities for the beneficial sharing of ideas 
and approaches. I have been encouraged by 
the positive way our colleagues have embraced 
the transformation that has occurred within Low 
& Bonar over the last 12 months and responded 
to the more demanding trading environment. 
Regrettable but necessary decisions have been 
required to ensure our cost base is adjusted 
appropriately and the commitment of all those 
working for Low & Bonar to building the Group 
has remained excellent.
Our twin emphasis on 
acting responsibly in our 
manufacturing processes 
and on new product 
developments continues, 
but at an increased rate. 13 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
Lixhe port area (Belgium) — using more than 20,000m
2
of Bontec.
Specialist architectural coated fabric used at Aintree 
Racecourse.
Tarpaulin used on a wagon train.
Strategy, key strengths and 2008 
performance review
The principal activities are in the international 
manufacturing and supply of performance 
materials known as technical textiles. The 
global technical textile industry comprises, 
inter alia, fibres, yarns and woven fabrics 
serving diverse markets for a wide range of 
niche industrial applications.
Strategy and key strengths
Strategy
The Group’s objective is to become a global 
leader in the manufacture and supply of 
performance materials, based primarily on 
technical textiles, for strategically attractive 
niche markets. The Group is focused on 
becoming a global performance materials 
business, based primarily, but not exclusively, 
on technical textiles, which aims to provide 
distinct and sustained added value to its 
customers’ businesses. The Company believes 
that pursuing this strategy, backed by a 
stable management team, will result in higher 
returns and above-market growth rates. It is 
the Company’s belief that a material increase 
in scale through the adoption of this strategy 
will give benefits in purchasing capability, 
utilisation of commercial infrastructure, 
scope to invest in state-of-the-art production 
equipment and shared knowledge and depth 
of pocket in research and development.
The Group’s strategy is to develop a portfolio 
of leading global positions in carefully chosen 
niche markets and to realise purchasing, 
production and cross-selling synergies as 
appropriate. Cost and quality leadership is 
sought through constant process redesign 
and improvement. The Company believes 
that organic expansion will be achieved 
through further product innovation in all areas, 
geographic expansion and operational process 
improvement. This strategy for organic growth 
may be complemented by acquisitions in 
segments that are consistent with this strategy 
or which provide geographic expansion of the 
Group’s core activities.
Key Strengths
The Directors believe that the Group has 
a number of key strengths that assist in 
underpinning its financial performance. These 
strengths include
i) Leading market positions in the markets in 
which it operates
 The acquisition strategy of the last five 
years has focused on building leading 
market positions in the niche markets in 
which the Group operates by either: (a) 
building on existing market positions, as 
was the case in the acquisitions of Xirion, 
a producer and supplier of artificial grass 
yarns, and Geo-Tipptex, a manufacturer 
of non-woven geotextiles; or (b) acquiring 
businesses that have leading market 
positions in new markets, as was the case 
with the acquisitions of the non-woven 
business of Colbond and the technical 
coated fabrics business of MTX. The 
Directors believe that this acquisition 
strategy enables the Group to maintain 
strong operating margins.
ii) Customer diversity reducing over-reliance 
on one specific country or end market
 The Directors believe that the Group 
benefits from having limited exposure 
to any specific geographic market and 
through serving a wide range of end-
markets. In 2008, the Group’s sales by 
destination amounted to approximately 
5.5% to the United Kingdom, 70.5% 
to continental Europe, 15.7% to North 
America and 8.3% to the rest of the 
World, primarily Asia. The end-markets 
are themselves diverse, with products 
finding their way into, inter alia, markets 
such as the civil engineering, carpet tile 
manufacture, horticulture, artificial sports 
pitches, building construction and large-
scale outdoor advertising media sectors.
The Company believes 
that organic expansion 
will be achieved through 
further product innovation 
in all areas, geographic 
expansion and operational 
process improvement. 14 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED
iii) A growing investment in new product 
development
 The Group places great significance on 
innovation as a means of developing new 
products to satisfy customer demands. 
Colbond, for example, has research and 
development facilities in the Netherlands 
and in the United States comprising 5% of 
its employees and has recently added to its 
capabilities to support the Yarns business. 
Sales from products introduced within the 
last 12 months have increased to almost 
20% of the total. Specific examples of 
recent innovation include “F2F”, a unique 
double-sided backing product for carpet 
tiles that enables customers to reduce 
inventory and set-up times, and technical 
coated fabrics specifically designed for the 
storage of biogas. Our Fabrics business 
has launched a new range of products to 
support its horticultural customers and 
a new “Cool Grass” product has been 
developed by the Yarns business which 
lowers the surface temperature of a sports 
pitch by up to 15 ºC.
iv) The Group has a clearly demonstrated 
ability to execute and add value to 
acquisitions
 The Group has completed seven 
acquisitions and joint ventures in technical 
textiles in the last five years, across 
Europe, North America, the Middle East 
and China. These investments have 
ranged in size from £3.0m to €163.0m 
and have built on existing businesses or 
added new businesses to the Group. The 
Directors believe that these acquisitions 
have created value, both financially and 
strategically, within the Group. MTX 
has, for example, generated €26.7m 
of operating cash flow in the period to 
30th November 2008, and Geo-Tipptex 
achieved record sales in the last quarter of 
2008. 
v) The Group has a strong management team 
which has delivered significant financial 
improvement
 In the year ended 30th November 2002, 
before the current management team 
joined the Group, the relevant part of 
Low & Bonar, Yarns & Fabrics, generated 
divisional operating profit of approximately 
£2.6m on sales of £44.3m, representing an 
operating margin before central costs of 
5.9%, based on figures derived using 
UK GAAP. In the year ended 
30th November 2008, the sales of the 
Technical Textiles Division were £335.2m, 
divisional operating profit before 
amortisation and non-recurring items 
was £32.1m and the operating margin 
before central costs was 9.6%, based on 
figures derived using IFRS. This growth 
in margins was achieved at a time when 
average raw material costs have doubled 
approximately.
vi) Many of the markets served have positive 
long-term trend growth
 A number of structural factors determine 
the underlying growth of the markets 
served by the Group, other than those 
purely associated with macroeconomic 
trends: the level of global investment 
in infrastructure; the rate of change in 
commercial use from broadloom carpets to 
carpet tiles; the installation of artificial grass 
sports pitches; the use of artificial grass for 
landscaping applications; the use of coated 
fabrics for permanent and semi-permanent 
structures; and the importance of yield 
improvement and energy reduction in 
horticulture. The overall technical textiles 
industry is believed to have been growing 
in volume above underlying GDP over 
the last five years due to substitution and 
new market development factors. Whilst 
overall economic activity is one factor 
in determining the growth rates of the 
Group’s various markets, there are many 
other determinants, including those stated 
above, which taken together the Directors 
believe should sustain strong growth rates 
in core markets over the long term. 
2008 Performance review
Highlights
:: Successful acquisition of MTX
:: Cost control and operational productivity 
compensate for lower H2 sales
:: Rate of product innovation increased
:: Volatile raw material environment 
successfully mitigated
:: Operating margin increased to almost 10%
Despite a slower final quarter, 2008 proved a 
satisfying year financially and operationally. 
The biggest event was the acquisition of MTX, 
our technical coated fabrics business, and its 
subsequent integration and I am pleased to 
report that results to date are marginally higher 
than the stretching internal expectations that 
were set at the time of acquisition.
Case Study
The development of green roofs is a 
growing architectural trend in both US and 
Europe increasingly driven by supporting 
legislation. A unique new product which 
provides a growth medium, a drainage and 
filtration component, and a root barrier on 
top of traditional roofing substrates, which 
together satisfy the growing demand for 
ecological building construction.
EnkaRetain 
and Drain — a 
rooﬁ ng solution 
for a developing 
environmental trend
Case Study 15 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
Technical Coated Fabrics
MTX operates from two factories in Germany 
and one in the Czech Republic and a network 
of overseas sales offices. The main products 
are truck side tarpaulins, larger fabrics for 
outdoor advertising applications, permanent 
and semi-permanent structures, and various 
other specialist applications including the 
marine, pool and outdoor leisure sectors. 
Market demand is influenced by underlying 
economic drivers such as the number and 
replacement pattern of commercial vehicles 
in Europe, outdoor media expenditure, 
architectural trends and product substitution. 
The market is estimated to be worth 
approximately £2bn globally and hence offers 
significant scope for our further growth.
At the time of the MTX acquisition, a detailed 
set of plans was developed to ensure sales, 
profit margins and cash flow were optimised. 
This initiative has progressed well to date 
despite the trailer market being adversely 
impacted by the economic environment in 
the latter half of the year. The business has 
significantly reduced its working capital, 
sustained good operating margins and 
implemented many of the Group processes 
relating to financial and operational control. 
Looking ahead, opportunities exist to optimise 
manufacturing productivity and working capital 
efficiency still further as well as to expand its 
geographic presence and to increase the rate 
of innovation and hence sales growth. The 
diverse geographic nature of its sales network 
is proving an asset to our other businesses, as 
well as its expertise in coating technology.
Performance Technical Textiles
(i) Technical Fabrics
The Technical Fabrics business produces and 
supplies woven and non-woven geotextiles, 
agrotextiles and other industrial textiles; 
it also supplies specialist fibres added to 
concrete, primarily in the civil engineering 
industry. It manufactures from factories in 
Belgium, Hungary and China. The European 
business continued its track record of growth 
in sales and profit, delivering record margins. 
A particular highlight of the year was the 
very good performance of Geo-Tipptex, 
the Hungarian manufacturer of non-woven 
geotextiles used in civil engineering that 
was acquired in 2006. This business has 
benefited from the increase and upgrading 
of its production capacity in 2007, enabling 
it to improve margins and product quality. 
Elsewhere, the businesses serving the civil 
engineering market and horticulture markets 
for groundcovers fared well and retain leading 
positions across Europe. Encouragingly for the 
future, the focus of the management team on 
enhancing its new product pipeline is starting 
to bear fruit with the proportion of sales from 
new products gaining steadily throughout the 
year, such as specialist applications like cherry 
cloth, Phormidrain and mushroom mats. It is 
also making good headway in less developed, 
higher growth geographic markets — most 
notably the Gulf region. Our Chinese joint 
venture experienced unprecedentedly high 
levels of raw material cost escalation as well as 
market softening from their Chinese customers 
supplying product into Europe and North 
America. Nonetheless, the long-term potential 
remains undoubted and we are using expertise 
from across the Group to bring standards of 
production and financial performance to a 
consistently high level.
(ii) Bi-component non-wovens and three-
dimensional mats
Colbond sells non-woven speciality fabrics as 
backing for carpet tiles, higher end automotive 
applications and for roofing membranes. It 
also produces three-dimensional mats used 
as flow media and separation media in civil 
engineering and composites amongst others. 
The business performed well to maintain its 
profit despite being the one business with 
some exposure both to the automotive and 
residential housing market, which proved 
difficult throughout 2008. 
Excellent levels of product innovation enabled 
sales to grow elsewhere, with sales into the 
civil engineering, general industrial and US 
carpet tile sectors all performing notably 
well. As importantly, the production teams 
on both sides of the Atlantic made great 
strides in productivity improvements and 
achieved reductions of over 10% for certain 
core products. Additionally, the completion 
of a new warehouse in July 2008 has started 
to improve service and reduce cost. Like 
Fabrics, it saw significant growth in sales from 
products recently introduced and looks set 
to maintain this trend. Entry into new end-
markets is also being strenuously targeted 
and is likely to produce tangible benefits in 
2009. Sales initiatives into growth markets 
like “green” buildings and composites have 
been prioritised further given their greater 
underlying resilience in the current economic 
environment and their long-term growth 
potential. In the broader context, Colbond’s 
R&D capability remains a core strength that 
much of the business calls upon to good effect 
and it leads the way in many aspects of health, 
safety and environmental practice. Its safety 
record is pre-eminent within the Group and is 
clear best practice.
(iii) Technical Yarns
Bonar Technical Yarns manufactures and 
supplies a range of high-specification synthetic 
yarns for use in the production of synthetic 
sport and landscaping surfaces as well as in 
woven Axminster and Wilton carpets. The 
key development in this business in 2008 was 
the establishment of a joint venture in Abu 
Dhabi. The production facility is expected 
to commence production of grass yarn in 
the second half of 2009 and will add to the 
existing European production capacity in 
Scotland and Belgium. As well as bringing 
access to lower production costs it is situated 
close to one of the expected growth markets 
for both sports and landscape applications. 
2008 saw Yarns face the highest raw material 
price increases across the Group and a lot of 
good work on raw material and direct labour 
efficiency ensured that this negative effect was 
broadly mitigated. Underlying sales volume 
growth was achieved and new customers 
were obtained globally but further progress 
needs to be made for the business to achieve 
its profit potential. Encouragingly, significant 
growth in new product development output has 
been achieved and the business is in better 
underlying shape than it has been for a long 
time, due to a lot of hard work across all facets 
of the business.
Paul Forman
Group Chief Executive
19th February 2009
