 08 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
The Group’s core business is the high value-
added manufacture and supply of performance 
materials, based primarily on technical textiles, 
for strategically attractive niche markets. It now 
operates from 13 factories in three continents 
and supplies fibres, yarns, woven and non-
woven fabrics for applications in markets 
including civil engineering, environmentally 
sustainable construction, leisure, architecture 
and general industrial applications. The 
success of our products is determined more by 
their performance characteristics than by their 
aesthetic properties. The Group is focused 
on becoming a global leader in current and 
other attractive niche markets for performance 
materials and aims to provide distinct and 
sustained added value to its customers’ 
businesses.
Strategic realignment in 2008
On 30th September 2008, we completed the 
sale of the Floors Division for £123.0m on a 
cash-free, debt-free basis (see page 10 for 
further details). The Board is grateful to the 
management and employees of the Division for 
their strong performance in recent years.
Following the disposal of its Floors Division 
in September 2008, the Group has focused 
its business on two areas of activity in the 
international technical textiles industry: 
first, the production and supply of technical 
coated fabrics for use in the transport, print 
and architectural markets; and, secondly, 
of performance technical textiles, including 
woven and non-woven fabrics and yarns 
serving, inter alia, the civil engineering, leisure 
and horticultural markets. 
This realignment is commented on further in 
the Group Chief Executive’s Business Review 
on pages 10 to 15.
Financial performance
As a result of the sale of the Floors Division 
we are giving 2007 comparative figures both 
restated for the disposal and as previously 
reported. These figures are set out in the 
table below.
Reasons for the Placing and Open Offer 
and use of proceeds
The Group has announced the terms of a 
Placing and Open Offer which is expected 
to generate net proceeds of c.£30m for the 
Company. The Board believes that the funds 
raised from the Placing and Open Offer will 
improve the financial position and future 
prospects of the Group significantly and, at 
the appropriate time, allow it to invest in its 
planned organic growth initiatives and to take 
advantage of opportunities emerging from the 
current market environment.
Following its good results for the year ended 
30th November 2008, but having given 
consideration to its strategy and current 
trading conditions, the Company has reviewed 
its financing arrangements and the structure 
of its balance sheet. Economic conditions are 
strained worldwide and highly uncertain and 
therefore, the Board believes that identified 
investment opportunities for organic earnings 
growth are being lost or delayed through the 
need to conserve cash. These opportunities 
include initiatives to reduce capacity 
constraints and costs and improve cash 
generation capabilities. Under more favourable 
economic conditions, and if finance were to be 
available, the Board would be likely to pursue 
such opportunities. Initiatives to grow sales 
include capacity expansion projects related 
to supplying growth markets such as civil 
engineering and artificial grass; geographic 
expansion; removing capacity constraints 
in weaving; research and development 
expenditure in woven textiles and yarns; 
and the need to fund the working capital 
consequences of such growth in due course. 
Cost reduction initiatives include process 
automation in Colbond and manufacturing 
The Group is focused on becoming a global 
leader in current and other attractive niche 
markets for performance materials and aims 
to provide distinct and sustained added 
value to its customers’ businesses.
Duncan Clegg
Chairman
Financial Highlights 2007 2007 2008
  Restated
 As  to exclude Excluding % Growth
 previously  Floors Floors (2008 v. 2007
£m reported Division Division restated)
Group revenue 311.8 210.3 335.2 59.4
Group operating profit before amortisation and non-recurring items  26.1 14.1 26.7 89.4
Group profit before tax, amortisation and non-recurring items 22.4 10.4 16.0 53.8 09 LOW & BONAR  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 www .lowandbonar.com
productivity enhancements in MTX. The 
Company typically targets cash payback from 
cost reduction projects of one to three years 
and three to four years for organic sales growth 
projects. The Company believes that these 
initiatives, if implemented, will support the 
upward trend in operating profit margins and 
enhance its strategic position.
Whilst economic conditions remain uncertain 
and trading muted, the Company intends to 
use the net proceeds of the Placing and Open 
Offer to reduce net borrowings until such 
time as it deems it prudent to implement its 
strategic and operational initiatives.
Capital Reorganisation
It is proposed that the Placing and Open Offer 
will be undertaken at 25 pence per Placing 
and Open Offer Share. The Placing and Open 
Offer is conditional on, amongst other things, 
the completion of a Capital Reorganisation, for 
which the approval of shareholders is being 
sought, which will result in the nominal value of 
each New Ordinary Share being reduced 
to 5 pence. 
Further details on the proposed Capital 
Reorganisation are given in note 32.
Dividend 
In light of the Placing and Open Offer, a final 
dividend will not be recommended for the 
year ended 30th November 2008. It is the 
Board’s intention, subject to the Group’s 
trading position and prevailing economic 
circumstances, to resume dividend payments 
for the year to 30th November 2009. It is the 
Board’s intention that the level of the dividend 
payment would be established at a sustainable 
level with the dividend per share to be 
covered at least twice by earnings per share 
(before amortisation and non-recurring items).
Employees
Once again I would like to thank our 
employees throughout the Group for their 
continued very positive responses and 
initiatives throughout the year. Their hard work 
and responsiveness underpins our strong 
positions across our markets.
Current trading and outlook
The Group has experienced material year-on-
year sales volume falls since 30th November 
2008, although significant cost actions already 
taken and benefits from falls in the prices of 
its key raw materials have helped to mitigate 
the impact on financial performance. These 
sales volume declines had been anticipated 
in part due to customer shutdowns and 
destocking, as well as the impact of the 
strained economic conditions. 
Given the inherent seasonality in the Group’s 
markets and the uncertainty surrounding 
global economic conditions, a clearer picture 
of underlying trading conditions and the 
outlook for the Group in 2009 is likely to take 
some time to emerge. In addition to cost 
actions taken so far, the Group has identified 
other opportunities to reduce costs should 
conditions require it. 
Our strategy of developing diverse product 
ranges for niche end markets and building 
leading market positions, allied to the 
underlying trend growth of the technical textile 
industry all give the Board confidence for the 
medium to long-term prospects of the Group.
Duncan Clegg
Chairman
19th February 2009
ADFIL Ignis micro ﬁ bres, with ﬁ re protection properties, 
used in cement products, particularly in underground 
construction.
Colback
®
 used as carrier for ﬁ ltration media such as cabin 
air or hydraulic ﬁ lters.
Hybrid ﬁ bre solution using Adﬁ l construction ﬁ bres at IKEA, 
Manchester.
