 TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE  AEROSPACE DEFENCE  TELECOM
LP A GROUP PLC ANNU AL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002
3
Results
As predicted in my interim statement the second half-year proved very challenging for the Group. As a
consequence the modest profit reported in the first half was more than absorbed by the second half loss,
resulting in an overall pre tax loss of £318,000 for the year against a profit before tax of £127,000 last
year. The loss per share amounted to 3.16p compared with earnings per share of 1.63p in 2001. 
The difficult trading conditions have continued through the first quarter of the current financial year. Although
the workload based on current orders will improve later in the year a further substantial cost reduction has
been implemented. This is reducing expenses to a level commensurate with the level of trading activity that the
Group has been experiencing, and should allow progress later in the year. However, conditions were so
severe in the first quarter that, including the costs associated with the cost reduction exercise, progress during
the year will be limited. 
Dividends
Given the loss for the year ended 30 September 2002 your directors consider it inappropriate to recommend
a final dividend. The interim dividend of 0.25p per share paid in September 2002 was covered by earnings.
We will keep the dividend under review and restore it as soon as trading permits.
Alternative Investment Market
As proposed in my statement last year the Group transferred to the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) in May
2002. The transfer was successfully achieved without major disruption.
The Peter Pollock Option
Shareholders will be aware that on 21 April 1997, our chief executive, Peter Pollock was granted an option
over 750,000 ordinary shares of 10p each, at an option price of 40p per share. This option expires on 31
March 2004. However, it has become clear that, in the current circumstances, this early expiry date is
inappropriate in that it will prevent the option serving the intended purpose. Consequently the Remuneration
Committee has agreed with Peter Pollock that the period, over which this option may be exercised, be
extended until 20 April 2007 (i.e. ten years from the grant of the original option). All other terms of the option
(including the option price of 40p per share) will remain the same. 
Employees
Sadly, the difficult trading conditions and the consequent cost reductions have meant that a number of positions
have become redundant and some excellent people have been casualties of this process. We wish them well
in the future.  Our people are the Group’s key resource and we value them highly. On behalf of the Board I
would like to thank all of our employees for their diligence, loyalty and hard work in difficult circumstances.
Prospects
The start of the year has been difficult, but the cost reduction programme has been implemented against a
background of an improving load later in the year. This should significantly improve Group performance during
the second half. 
Michael Rusch
Chairman
29 January 2003
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
