 TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE  AEROSPACE DEFENCE  TELECOM
LP A GROUP PLC ANNU AL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002
4
Trading Results
The final quarter of the year ended September 2001 and the first quarter of the year ended September 2002
yielded the highest ever levels of Group activity. Delays in customer manufacturing programmes and in the
award of new contracts then reduced Group activity to very low levels, which persisted throughout the rest of
the year and the start of the current year. In the first half of the year to 30 September 2002 sales of £7.8m
were achieved, up 27% on the same period in the previous year. In the second half of the year sales of only
£6.0m were achieved, down 23% on the first half. The increased level of activity was caused by several rail
projects coming on stream at the same time and the down turn in the second half by the rescheduling of
requirements on West Coast Main Line, a major programme, and delays to other follow on contracts. 
Having expanded to meet the increased demand on the upswing, we then reduced the cost base in response
to the down swing. The outlook at the start of the second half still remained positive however, but at the same
time as the West Coast Main Line programme was rescheduled, order levels fell away. As a consequence
losses were incurred in the second half. For the year as a whole sales of £13.8m up 1.7% on the previous
year were achieved, but a loss before tax of £318,000 was suffered compared with a profit before tax of
£127,000 in 2001.
Markets
Shareholders will be well aware of the turmoil on Britain’s railways. This is reflected in the supply chain. One
UK train builder has work for several years while the other has very little. Major contracts have been placed
overseas. We have followed the work to Europe, but it has proved very difficult to dislodge the European
manufacturers’ existing suppliers of our products, even on vehicles destined for the UK. We have had more
success in the Far East and Australia and we are building alliances in that region. Despite these difficulties Rail
will remain an important market for the Group. We are enjoying success in the refurbishment and upgrade
market, which has helped to underpin recent improvements in order entry. New opportunities are expected
over the next two years.
The attack on the World Trade Centre in September 2001 caused Bae Systems to announce their withdrawal
from the Regional Jet programme. This was an important programme for the Group and its loss was felt in the
second half. More recently the pan European military programmes have become more global in their supply
initiatives and this will lead to increased competition from the US and Europe where there is a price advantage
due to the weakness of the dollar and Euro versus the pound sterling. It is expected that this will adversely
affect margins in the future. The expansion of civil air travel has slowed which is affecting the expansion and
refurbishment of airports, which has a knock on effect on Group sales of Ground Support Equipment.
The problems in the Telecommunication market are well known. BT and Marconi have had major problems,
and there has been a delay in the roll out of the new G3 Mobile Phone network. As a supplier of base station
equipment and cubicles to the Telecoms market the Group has been adversely affected.
Overall the markets for the Group’s products have been quiet and orders and sales declined from their
anticipated levels during the year, in a manner consistent with the wider industrial market. Over the last four
months however a more satisfactory level of order entry has been sustained, which together with the work
rescheduled from last year will provide a useful base load during the rest of this year.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE  AEROSPACE DEFENCE  TELECOM
LP A GROUP PLC ANNU AL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002
5
Structure and Cost Base
It became clear in the Autumn of 2002 that, despite reductions, the cost base was still too high compared
with the sustainable level of Group activity and that a structural change was required to allow for the further
elimination of cost. The Group has four subsidiaries, none of which were growing fast enough to sustain the
full management structure they enjoyed.  It was necessary to reduce the cost base of each unit so that it could
remain a viable business and to share certain resources across the Group. A new structure has been
implemented. 
There is now a unified sales and marketing organisation led by George Renshaw, the Managing Director of
LPA Channel Electric who becomes Group Sales and Marketing Executive. This has allowed the duplication
of regional resources to be eliminated. The Group sales team will now be able to sell all Group products.
Technical sales personnel will continue to support the Group’s project related business. Export effort will be co-
ordinated on a territory by territory basis. During the year all subsidiaries adopted the LPA prefix to their trading
names and LPA Industries adopted the name LPA Niphan Systems to better reflect its offering to the markets it
serves. Niphan is the name of the original range of electrical connectors from which technology much of LPA
Niphan System’s current range of connector equipment is derived.
Some Group manufacturing or assembly capabilities overlapped. Operations have now been brought
together under a single management team led by Jim Henderson, the Managing Director of LPA Niphan
Systems who becomes Chief Operating Officer. Duplicated resources are being eliminated. A number of
senior management positions have been made redundant.
All Group administration and finance functions will report directly to Steve Brett, the Group Finance Director,
with a subsidiary responsibility to the local operations management.
A major cost reduction programme has been achieved and the cost base will be kept under constant review. 
Business Units
LPA Niphan Systems started the year with a heavy workload, which evaporated because of the rescheduling
of West Coast Mainline and the delay in the award of other follow on contracts. Whilst the order entry for
standard products was sustained it was insufficient to provide an adequate workload during the second half,
when project work was postponed. Overall losses were reduced from those suffered in the previous year.
Trading in the first quarter of this year has been difficult but the cost base has been cut further  There is a useful
workload for the rest of the year and a high level of tendering activity, which should lead to further progress.
Demand for standard products should benefit from the re-focussed Group sales team.
LPA Channel Electric had another good year but progress was limited by the cancellation of the Regional Jet
programme following the attack on the World Trade Centre. During the first quarter of this year it has become
clear that global and pan European competition will be likely to put pressure on margins. A cost reduction
exercise has been carried out and the assembly facility will close with the work to be transferred elsewhere in
the Group. The company has made progress in the rail vehicle refurbishment market and has other significant
opportunities.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (continued) TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE  AEROSPACE DEFENCE  TELECOM
LP A GROUP PLC ANNU AL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002
6
LPA Excil Electronics had a year of different halves. The first was excellent and the second very disappointing.
The company benefited from a heavy project workload in the first half that disappeared in the second.
Rescheduling and delays in the award of follow on contracts contributed to the reduction in activity levels but
difficult conditions in the contract electronics market were also a negative factor. Overall a modest profit was
made despite losses in the second half which have persisted in to the first quarter of the current year. Some
important new contracts have since been won which will provide a workload during the rest of the year and
there are significant opportunities for the future. A major cost reduction has been implemented and progress
is expected during the rest of the year.
LPA Haswell Engineers had a difficult year. The workload declined during the second half due to the continuing
problems in the Telecoms market, and losses were sustained for the year as a whole. The level of tendering
activity and order entry picked up during the first quarter of the current year and while output is not yet
satisfactory, the order book has strengthened. The cost base has been reduced and a number of efficiencies
introduced which should allow progress during the rest of the year.
Capital Expenditure
Capital expenditure during the year amounted to £365,000. Following the major expenditure in the previous
year, no new major capital projects were undertaken during the year. There are no major capital expenditure
projects planned for this year.
Cash Flow
Net cash inflow from operating activities amounted to £1,596,000. After financing £240,000 of net capital
expenditure, £14,000 of deferred consideration, dividends of £81,000 and debt service of £878,000
(interest and capital) total cash increased by £383,000. Net debt fell in the year by £972,000 and at 30
September 2002 gearing was 85% (2001: 99%).
Design and Development
The Group’s design and development activity has focussed on new transportation and telecom market
products, updating industrial products and adopting the latest manufacturing techniques.
Prospects
The markets in which the Group operates are large, but have been highly volatile during the last year. The
prospect of war in the Middle East, and consequent rises in oil prices, are not an encouraging backdrop
against which to consider prospects. Overall however the restructuring and the cost reduction programme that
has been implemented should minimise the impact of any further downturn on the Group. We have a much
more conservative view of the sustainable level of activity available to the Group. The workload over the
coming months is better than was the case during both the second half of last year and the first quarter of this
year and the tendering level is stronger. The first quarter was difficult and the costs of the restructuring will be
borne in the first half of the year. Progress should be made during the second half. 
Peter Pollock
Chief Executive
29 January 2003
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (continued)
