 TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE  AEROSPACE DEFENCE  TELECOM
LP A GROUP PLC ANNU AL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003
3
Results
Trading conditions in the first half of the year proved difficult but, as anticipated in my interim statement,
improved in the second half. This trading improvement combined with the cost reduction exercise ensured that
the Group was profitable in the second half of the year. The second half profit was insufficient to eliminate the
first half loss but reduced it to give a pre-tax loss of £208,000 for the year (2002: loss of £318,000). The
loss per share for the year was 1.14p compared with 3.16p in 2002. 
The current year has started well with sales in the first three months up 19% and order entry up 5% over the
corresponding period last year. 
Dividends
Because of the progress made by the Group during the second half of the financial year, the directors
recommend the payment of a final dividend. Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General
Meeting of the Company to be held at 11.00 am on 11 March 2004 at the offices of Teather & Greenwood
Limited, 15 St Botolph Street, London, EC3A 7QR, a final dividend of 0.25p per share will be paid on 19
March 2004 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 27 February 2004.
Board
The Board has invited me to continue as non-executive Chairman for a second three year term, a duty that I
am honoured and delighted to accept. I am pleased to report that John Goodger has also accepted the
Board’s invitation to continue as the senior independent non-executive director for a third three year term. 
The directors retiring by rotation and offering themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting are
Michael Edmonds and John Goodger. A brief curriculum vitae on each of them is shown on page 1. I am
pleased to commend their re-election to the Board.
Authority to allot shares
The Annual General Meeting includes two resolutions relating to the authority of the directors to allot shares in
the Company. The first renews the authority of the directors to allot shares generally, pursuant to section 80 of
the Companies Act 1985; the second is a special resolution to renew the limited authority of the directors to
allot equity securities for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders, pursuant to section 95 of the
Companies Act 1985. Both authorities will run through until the next annual general meeting of the Company.
At present the directors have no intention of using such authorities, but they provide the Company with flexibility
should it wish to allot shares in the future. 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE  AEROSPACE DEFENCE  TELECOM
LP A GROUP PLC ANNU AL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003
4
Employees
Our people remain the Group’s key resource and they are highly valued. I would be remiss if I didn’t
acknowledge their contribution to the Group’s progress through such trying times and on behalf of the Board
I would like to thank all of them for their diligence, hard work and commitment which has contributed so much
to the Group’s improved position. We pursue an active personal development and training programme across
the Group. 
Prospects
The start of the year has been encouraging but a great deal remains to be done. The management team has
introduced a rolling programme of initiatives aimed at improving Group performance and profitability. Your
Board is hopeful of progress over the year as a whole. 
Michael Rusch
Chairman
28 January 2004
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT (continued)
