 TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE  AEROSPACE DEFENCE  TELECOM
LP A GROUP PLC ANNU AL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003
5
Trading results
The start of the financial year was extremely difficult but by the second half order entry improved which led to
a recovery in factory load. Sales in the first half amounted to £5.9m, while those in the second half-year
increased by 12.4% to £6.7m. The cut back in expenses implemented in the first half together with the
improved sales output meant that the second half of the year has been profitable, although insufficient to offset
the first half loss. A loss before tax for the year as a whole of £208,000 was suffered compared with a loss
in the previous year of £318,000.
Order entry was up 27% over the previous year.  Despite the loss, and the final deferred consideration
payment due on the acquisition of Haswell, cash generation of £337,000 was achieved through strict control
of working capital and the disposal during the first half of two surplus properties. Gearing fell 3% in the year
to 82%. 
The Group is now in a significantly more stable position than it was a year ago. The first quarter of this
financial year has been in line with expectation. 
Markets
The chaos in Britain’s railway industry has been widely reported: quite apart from the review recently
announced by the Secretary of State, in the last twelve months a significant competitor of the Group was
placed in administration. In addition Alstom Transport, based in Birmingham and historically the Group’s
largest customer, announced it is to cease building new trains in the UK. The telecom market has been difficult
and continued security concerns contributed to reduced demand for aircraft and airport equipment.  
The Group has worked through these and other set backs, has replaced much of the lost business and growth
is now in prospect. There remain weak spots which will require effort and careful management to overcome
but overall the situation is much more satisfactory.
Looking to the future rail vehicle refurbishment and upgrade opportunities remain and now that the governance
issue at London Underground has been resolved we are seeing increased activity in that sector. The Group
continues to be successful in overseas rail markets; we have won business in France, for export to the Far East,
and there are further opportunities in the French market itself and for re-export from France, Belgium and
Germany to the UK; we are also making progress in Australia and the Far East. Whilst the aerospace market
remains fragile the telecom market appears to be recovering where demand is increasing from a low level.
Overall order entry is 5% higher in the first quarter of this financial year compared with a year ago.
Structure and cost base
As reported last year the cost base was reduced to reflect the lower sustainable level of Group activity and
this required a structural change. The new structure has been successfully implemented during the year. 
The new unified sales and marketing organisation is focussed on markets and promotes all Group products
and capabilities. The sales team is supported by product and technical expertise. The improved order entry
has been sustained and some growth has been achieved. 
The new operations team has rationalised production and assembly, and significant cost savings have been
achieved. Resources are now being shared across the Group and, in particular, progress is being made in
quality assurance, human resources and information technology.
Business units
LPA Niphan Systems returned to profitability during the year. The cost base was reduced and some assembly
work was transferred from LPA Channel Electric. Order entry was strong, particularly during the first half and
although the stream has slowed there are many projects outstanding and bid activity is high. There are short-
term gaps in the programme, caused by yet further delays in rail and metro projects, which will need to be
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE  AEROSPACE DEFENCE  TELECOM
LP A GROUP PLC ANNU AL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003
6
managed. The re-focussed sales team is generating renewed interest in LPA Niphan Systems’ products and this
should lead to an improved level of base load. 
LPA Channel Electric had a successful year. As previously reported it became clear during the first quarter that
global and pan European competition would put pressure on margins. This has proved to be the case but the
operation’s excellent customer service record has mitigated the situation. The cost reduction exercise, under
which the assembly facility closed, was completed during the first half. LPA Channel Electric has continued to
make significant progress in the rail vehicle refurbishment market. It has also won its first order from Network
Rail for a new third rail power supply connection system and has supplied B&Q with a fully earth leakage
protected light and power outlet called ‘Readyboard’ for use in domestic garages, sheds and similar situations.
LPA Excil Electronics had a frustrating year when a major opportunity was lost and the poor start to the year
persisted. Despite good order entry later in the year a small loss was incurred. The weak workload has
persisted but much improved order entry and prospects should ensure recovery later in the year. The cost
reduction implemented last year has reduced the break-even point and this should contribute to progress.
LPA Haswell Engineers had another poor year. The workload remained depressed and despite a cost reduction
and new management a loss was suffered.  Since the year end there has been a breakthrough and the
workload has improved. 
Capital expenditure
There was no significant capital expenditure during the year. A number of small projects are under evaluation
in the current year.
Cash flow
Net cash flow from operating activities amounted to £393,000. After net capital disposals of £317,000,
deferred consideration of £167,000 and debt service of £1,027,000 (interest and capital) cash decreased
by £484,000. Overall net debt fell in the year by £241,000 and at 30 September 2003 gearing was 82%
(2002: 85%).
Design and development
The Group’s design and development activity has focussed on new transportation market opportunities,
updating industrial products and cost reduction.
Prospects
Sustained order entry will be key in cementing the Group’s progress during the year. The markets in which the
Group operates are large but have been highly volatile. However whilst some investment decisions are being
delayed, muting near term performance, the market fundamentals are right. There are plenty of prospects and
if the investment decisions are made in a timely manner the Group is well positioned to take advantage of
them.
Peter Pollock
Chief Executive
28 January 2004
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (continued)
