 L P A G R O U P P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C C O U N T S 2 0 0 5
3
C H A I R M A N ' S S T A T E M E N T
Results
I am pleased to report that the Group has continued 
to trade profitably during the period under review. The 
year enjoyed a sound start and a relatively strong finish, 
but a weakness in load in the mid-year period restricted 
overall progress. A profit before tax of £176,000 (2004: 
£143,000) was achieved, and basic earnings per share 
were essentially unchanged at 1.28p (2004: 1.27p).
Dividends
In view of the improved cash position the directors 
recommend the payment of an increased final dividend 
of 0.35p per share (2004: 0.30p). This, together with 
the interim dividend of 0.15p per share, will make a 
total for the year of 0.50p per share (2004: 0.45p) an 
increase of 11%. Subject to approval by shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be 
held at 12.00 noon on Wednesday 8 March 2006 at 
the offices of Teather and Greenwood Limited, 15 St 
Botolph Street, London, EC3A 7QR, the final dividend 
will be paid on 17 March 2006, to shareholders 
registered at the close of business on 24 February 
2006.
Authority to allot shares and authority to buy 
shares
The Agenda for the Annual General Meeting includes 
three resolutions relating to the limited authority of the 
directors to allot shares, and for the Company to make 
market purchases of its own shares:
a. The first is a resolution to renew the authority of 
the directors to allot shares generally, as defined in 
section 80 of the Companies Act 1985;
b. The second is a resolution to renew the authority 
of the directors to allot equity securities for cash 
without first offering them to existing shareholders, 
pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985; 
and
c. The third is a resolution to permit the Company to 
make market purchases, as defined in section 163 
of the Companies Act 1985, of its own shares.
These authorities are part of the portfolio of powers 
commonly granted to directors to ensure flexibility, 
should appropriate circumstances arise, to either allot 
shares, or make purchases of the Company’s own 
shares in the best interests of shareholders. Each 
authority will run through until the next Annual General 
Meeting. The directors have no present intention of 
using such authorities.
Board
Stephen Brett and Peter Pollock are the directors retiring 
by rotation and I am delighted that they have indicated 
their willingness to offer themselves for re-election at 
the Annual General Meeting. A brief curriculum vitae 
on each of them is shown on page 2.
Under the present management the Group’s strategy 
is beginning to achieve important progress. Subject to 
the afore mentioned re-election it has been agreed 
with Peter Pollock, Group Chief Executive, that his 
existing service agreement will be extended to expire in 
September 2011 when he will be aged sixty five years. 
His contract has a one year rolling notice period.
Employees
As usual, on behalf of the Board, I acknowledge that 
our most valuable asset, in all our locations, is our 
people. I take the opportunity to thank them all for their 
continued loyalty and support.
Prospects
After a good final quarter the start to the new financial 
year has been disappointing. This roller coaster effect 
has become a pattern in recent years, which will be 
eliminated when the underlying load in the long-term 
order book becomes current. Action is being taken to 
secure the many prospects available to the Group in 
sales, operational efficiency and procurement. Your 
board is hopeful of progress during the year.
Michael Rusch
Chairman
23 January 2006
