 L P A G R O U P P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C C O U N T S 2 0 0 6
4
Results
In my Statement accompanying the interim figures I 
remarked that the Board expected only limited progress 
during the remainder of the year, following the loss 
before tax of £149,000 incurred in the first half.  The 
Group’s performance improved during the second half 
and this has continued in to the first quarter of the 
current year. The loss before tax for the year amounted 
to £143,000 (2005: profit of £299,000) equating to a 
loss per share of 1.26p (2005: earnings per share of 
2.06p). 
Dividends
Given the encouraging start to the current year and the 
improved cash position your directors recommend the 
payment of a maintained final dividend of 0.35p per 
share. This, together with the interim dividend of 0.15p, 
will make a total for the year of 0.50p per share (2005: 
0.50p). It should be noted that these dividends disclosed 
do not represent amounts recognised in the year under 
FRS21 but rather the dividends paid and proposed on 
the basis of the results for the year. Subject to approval 
by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of 
the Company to be held at 10.00 am on Monday 26 
February 2007 at the offices of Teather and Greenwood 
Limited, 15 St Botolph Street, London, EC3A 7QR 
the final dividend will be paid on 16 March 2007, to 
shareholders registered at the close of business on 23 
February 2007. 
Authority to allot shares and authority to buy 
shares
The Agenda for the Annual General Meeting includes 
three resolutions relating to the limited authority of the 
directors to allot shares, and for the Company to make 
market purchases of its own shares:  
a. The first is a resolution to renew the authority of 
the directors to allot shares generally, as defined in 
section 80 of the Companies Act 1985; 
b. The second is a resolution to renew the authority 
of the directors to allot equity securities for cash 
without first offering them to existing shareholders, 
pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985; 
and
c. The third is a resolution to permit the Company to 
make market purchases, as defined in section 163 
of the Companies Act 1985, of its own shares. 
These authorities are part of the portfolio of powers 
commonly granted to directors to ensure flexibility, 
should appropriate circumstances arise, to either allot 
shares, or make purchases of the Company’s own 
shares in the best interests of shareholders. Each 
authority will run through until the next Annual General 
Meeting. The directors have no present intention of 
using such authorities.
Board
My letter of appointment as Chairman of the Group was 
due to expire at the conclusion of the Annual General 
Meeting, however the Board have asked, and I have 
consented, to my appointment being extended to the 
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2010. 
John Goodger, whose letter of appointment was due to 
expire at the conclusion of this meeting has consented 
to serve another year on the Board and he will now 
retire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting 
in 2008. John Goodger is the director retiring by 
rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting 
and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
The directors intend to strengthen the board 
through the appointment of at least one new non-
executive director.  Discussions are under way and an 
announcement will be made in due course.
Brief curricula vitae of all the directors are shown on 
page 3.
C H A I R M A N ' S S T A T E M E N T 
LPA annual report 2006 reflowed again.indd   4 24/01/2007   22:52:04 L P A G R O U P P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C C O U N T S 2 0 0 6
5
C H A I R M A N ' S S T A T E M E N T ( C O N T I N U E D )
Employees and share option schemes
Our people are our most valuable asset and contribute 
in many positive ways to the Group’s progress. 
The existing employee share option schemes were 
introduced in 1997 and were designed to have a 
life of ten years which will expire in April 2007. An 
employee share option scheme is one of a number 
of remuneration tools commonly used to attract and 
retain good quality people. The Company has found the 
existing schemes extremely useful in this respect and 
relatively simple to administer. The Board proposes to 
introduce a replacement scheme, summary details of 
which will be circulated to shareholders with the Annual 
Report. A resolution to implement the new scheme will 
be put to the Annual General Meeting.
Tender Offer by Mr Andrew Perloff
Shareholders will be aware that on 26 October 2006 
Mr Andrew Perloff made a Tender Offer to acquire, 
together with his existing holding, up to 29.99% of the 
Group’s issued share capital. As a result Mr Perloff now 
holds 17.85% of the Group’s issued share capital. The 
Board welcomes Mr Perloff as a new large shareholder 
of the Group.
Strategy
Management remains focussed on delivering 
shareholder value. Restoring the Group to profitability 
and financial stability has been the first priority, which 
now achieved must be sustained and strengthened. 
The Group is seeking to reduce its dependence on large 
long-term contracts by developing standard proprietary 
products, and to reduce manufacturing costs through 
low cost country sourcing. Opportunities exist to realise 
the development potential of the Saffron Walden site 
in the medium term, and to grow the Group both 
organically and through acquisition. Repositioning the 
Group’s products at the higher end of the technology 
spectrum, with the attendant reappraisal of the 
Group’s potential by the market, is also a medium term 
objective.
Outlook
The start to the new financial year has been the 
strongest for many years and sales output in the 
first quarter is the highest on record. The second 
quarter, while not as strong, should also contribute 
to considerable progress in the first half of the year. 
Although the load in the second half is not yet all 
secured, parts of the business are experiencing record 
demand and prospects for most of the activities look 
good. There are still contracts for which we have 
been selected, but for which the orders have not yet 
been placed. There are many significant prospects, 
particularly for the Group’s LED lighting products, which 
are very exciting indeed.  
I expect to be able to report further progress at the 
Annual General Meeting and in the Interim Statement. 
Michael Rusch 
Chairman 
24 January 2007
LPA annual report 2006 reflowed again.indd   5 24/01/2007   22:52:04
