 L P A G R O U P P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C C O U N T S 2 0 0 6
6
Trading results
After a disappointing first half the Group recovered in 
the final months of the year. This was unfortunately 
insufficient, despite the cost reduction in the first half, 
to offset the losses already incurred and this resulted 
in a pre-tax loss for the year of £143,000 (2005: profit 
of £299,000). Orders entered have exceeded sales for 
the fourth successive year, the order book increased 
by 2.7% over the year to £9.1m, while sales grew 
2.0% to £13.7m. The net cash inflow before financing 
amounted to £277,000 (2005: £304,000) and gearing 
was reduced by 2.5% to 38.8%. The interim and final 
dividends were maintained. 
Markets
Rail
The Group remains the UK’s leading designer, 
integrator and supplier of auxiliary battery power 
systems, a position, which has been strengthened in 
the year by our appointment as exclusive European 
distributor for a range of batteries for train use.  The 
Group is similarly positioned for inter-vehicle electrical 
connection systems. In lighting the Group holds a world 
class position in LED drive and lensing technology 
integration, and supplies lighting systems to UK, 
European and Asian based rail vehicle builders. 
Following a period of unprecedented demand for 
new rail vehicles, the UK is currently in consolidation 
mode. The number of new trains being built has fallen 
sharply and the focus is now on refurbishment of 
surface stock and the upgrade of London Underground 
metro vehicles. There is some new build demand, 
notably Electrostar, where the Group has only limited 
involvement, and Javelin (the high speed Channel 
Tunnel Rail Link vehicle) for which the Group will supply 
lighting and electrical shore supply systems. Orders 
for Turbostar, where the Group is well represented, 
are likely to be delayed while a new, environmentally 
friendly, diesel engine is procured. In addition to these 
there is a strong possibility that the fleet of West Coast 
Mainline Pendolino trains will have additional cars 
added to each train set, and in this event the Group as 
supplier of the original equipment will be well placed 
to exploit the opportunity: this would be expected to 
benefit the end of this, and the whole of next, financial 
year. The Group has been selected for, or awarded, 
contracts for the upgrade of Victoria Line vehicles where 
initial deliveries have been completed: there is now an 
evaluation and test period until 2008/9, when series 
production will commence. The Group is currently 
heavily involved in the supply of inter-vehicle electrical 
connection equipment for Taiwan. 
Much of the UK market for new vehicles is satisfied 
by imports with the main suppliers being Alstom, 
Bombardier, Hitachi and Siemens: we are established as 
suppliers to all four.   
Our commitment to quality, reliability and low life cycle 
cost has resulted in significant interest in our range of 
LED lighting products, particularly from France, where 
we have won some initial contracts with further major 
opportunities available. 
Train building capacity in Europe exceeds demand and 
is under threat from new facilities in Asia, which will 
have the capacity to satisfy at least some European 
demand. At present the Asian philosophy of lowest 
possible initial cost does not lend itself to the European 
environment, which puts a premium on reliability and 
low life cycle costs. However it is only a matter of time 
before Asian manufacturers raise their game and we 
must prepare for that event. 
We have enjoyed some limited success in the Asian 
market. However until the local cost of maintenance 
increases, through higher wage costs, opportunities for 
our products will be limited. We do though continue to 
have discussions with Asian companies who wish to be 
our partners in the region. 
We continue to secure contracts in Australia, Hong 
Kong, Singapore, Japan for re-export, and elsewhere 
including South Africa. 
C H I E F E X E C U T I V E ' S R E V I E W
LPA annual report 2006 reflowed again.indd   6 24/01/2007   22:52:04 L P A G R O U P P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C C O U N T S 2 0 0 6
7
C H I E F E X E C U T I V E ' S R E V I E W ( C O N T I N U E D )
Markets (continued)
Aerospace and Defence 
Major aerospace projects have a long gestation period 
and are usually global collaborative projects. Equipment 
we have supplied to the UK Aerospace industry in the 
past is now the subject of pan-national bidding from 
which we are largely precluded.  While this market 
remains important and challenging to the Group we 
will continue to concentrate our resources on the 
subcontract and spares market where our approach to 
quality and service are better rewarded. 
The more fragmented UK defence market presents the 
Group with similar opportunities to supply equipment: 
it is a growing market where the Group has enjoyed 
success particularly with components and LED lighting.
Infrastructure and General Industrial
The Group is a leading player in the global market, 
excluding the US, for aircraft Ground Power connectors 
and harnesses. These provide power to aircraft on the 
ground enabling them to run essential services when 
the engines are switched off, and are used for both civil 
and military applications. 
The Group manufactures and distributes a range 
of electrical connection products, which are used in 
infrastructure, telecoms and general industry. London 
Underground station refurbishment is proving to be 
an exciting market which is expected to continue for 
several years: in addition it is likely that our LED lighting 
technology will have a part to play.  
The Group’s specialist metal forming activities have 
achieved a remarkable turnaround. A number of 
competitors have withdrawn from the industry as 
volume production has moved offshore. Focussed on 
high quality, service and short production runs, the 
business is experiencing a period of major growth and 
is producing very much improved results.
Structure and costs
The sales structure is kept under review and modified 
to reflect changing market conditions. The growth in 
LED lighting demand requires that we continue to put 
additional resources in to this activity. Operational costs 
were reduced during and at the end of the year and 
responsibilities redistributed. Customer satisfaction, 
quality and delivery remain most important goals. 
Information technology is an important opportunity for 
the Group. 
Design and development
Resources have been focussed on the development of 
standard proprietary products and the development of 
LED lighting applications. Standard products can be 
combined to provide bespoke customer solutions, lend 
themselves to increased batch sizes and sourcing from 
low cost countries. LED lighting products have led to 
a major increase in interest in the Group’s products in 
Europe and Asia.
Prospects
The start to this financial year has been remarkably 
good although the second quarter has a less 
spectacular load.  There are gaps in the electrical 
equipment manufacturing and distribution programmes 
yet to be filled, but there is time to allow this to happen 
and resources have been focussed on these objectives.  
Metal forming, electronics and lighting are buoyant. 
Prospects for the Group have improved such that the 
next couple of years should see significant progress.
Peter Pollock 
Chief Executive 
24 January 2007
LPA annual report 2006 reflowed again.indd   7 24/01/2007   22:52:04
