 02 LUMINAR PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
The Company is now starting to come
through what has been a difficult
period. The Company’s sector has 
been experiencing a downturn, primarily
due to excessive development of
capacity including a significant level 
of poor quality product introduced 
by competitors, which is now trading
badly and is affecting performance
throughout the sector.
Our management team have stabilised
and reorganised the business and
developed a clear and appropriate
strategy for building value and reducing
volatility. Luminar has outperformed 
its competition, produced a strong cash
performance and delivered results in
line with expectations.
The profit, before goodwill amortisation,
exceptional items and taxation was
£62m (compared with £67m in the
previous year.) 
In the Chief Executive’s Statement 
on pages 6 to 9 Stephen Thomas sets
out the strategy which the Company
will be following focusing on branded
entertainment venues to achieve high
and predictable returns. Although it 
will take time for the benefits of this
approach to come through, I am
confident that we are moving in the
right direction. 
In the Operating and Financial Review
on page 10, Andrew Burns our Financial
Director, explains the robust financial
position of the Company EBITDA for the
year amounted to £111m (compared
with £114m in the previous year) 
and free cash flow before dividends
amounted to £46m (including disposal
proceeds of £9m). The cash generation
has been primarily used to reduce 
debt which has further strengthened
the Company’s balance sheet. These
strong financial attributes give the
Company the resources to implement
its new strategy.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
The Company’s activities are principally
in the late night sector, with the sale 
of alcoholic drink being a significant
ancillary activity. We therefore have 
to manage issues associated with the
welfare of our customers and staff 
and the communities in which we
work. We have set out our policies 
on these and related issues on pages
16 to 19. The Company has the most
experienced operational management
LUMINAR HAS OUTPERFORMED ITS
COMPETITION, PRODUCED A STRONG
CASH PERFORMANCE AND DELIVERED
RESULTS IN LINE WITH EXPECTATIONS. Annual Report and Accounts 2004 LUMINAR PLC 03
in our sector, who are dedicated to the
safety of our customers and staff
REMUNERATION
The Remuneration report is set out 
on pages 28 to 34. Following extensive
consultations with shareholders, they
approved a long-term incentive plan
based on deferral and matching at 
an EGM on 24 February 2004.
As noted on page 31 of this Report, 
and as requested by some shareholders,
Stephen Thomas and the Company 
have agreed to amend his contract to
reduce the notice period to 12 months.
BOARD
The Non-Executive team has been
changing significantly. During the year
Bob Wickham and Mike Payne both
retired from the Board. In addition
John Williams and Alan Goldman 
will retire from the Board at the 
AGM in June. All four Non-Executive
Directors have provided many years 
of invaluable service to the Company
which they have seen grow at 
a remarkable speed into the leader in 
its sector. I would like to thank them
for their invaluable contribution and
wish them good luck for the future. 
During the year, Martin Gatto (Interim
Finance Director of British Energy) 
and Richard Brooke (former Finance
Director for BskyB plc) joined the
Board as Non-Executive Directors. 
We have also subsequently announced
the appointment of David Longbottom
(a Director of Dixons Group plc). 
CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK
Market conditions have remained
difficult. Like-for-like sales have
continued the same trend (-3%) 
as the second half of the financial year,
but the impact has been compensated
by net margins performing better 
than expected. Performance is in line
with expectations.
DIVIDEND
In light of the Board’s confidence in 
the future benefits of the strategy
being followed, it is recommending 
a final dividend of 8.87p, giving a total
dividend of 12.54p, which represents
an increase of 10%
SUMMARY
I would like to thank the management
and staff for their substantial 
and successful efforts to produce
satisfactory results in what have 
been demanding circumstances. 
Whilst recovery will take time we are
pursuing a clear and correct strategy,
which will enable us to achieve high
and predictable returns. We face the
future with increasing confidence. 
KEITH HAMILL
CHAIRMAN
20 MAY 2004
RIGHT: Aspen ski lodge, Oceana
FAR RIGHT: Parisian Boudoir , Oceana
