 in Slovakia was also commissioned successfully, increasing the
Group’s paper production by some 100,000 tonnes. Both of these
projects should contribute to earnings in 2004.
Our strong track record in terms of acquisitions speaks for itself. 
The EBITDA cash flow returns on our key acquisitions of Minera Sur
Andes, Cerrejón, Shell Coal, Syktyvkar and Tarmac range between 
16% and 23%. The acquisition of Minera Sur Andes late in 2002 
has proved extremely attractive for the Group. Not only were the
projected synergies exceeded but the operations were earnings-
accretive in their first year after acquisition at an average copper
price of 81 US cents/lb. Additional reserves totalling 368 million
tonnes have also been identified during the year, thereby extending
the life of this large, low cost producer at a time when few large,
new copper mines are coming into production.
Since our London listing in 1999, we have achieved significant
volume growth: 17% for platinum, 40% for diamonds, 67% 
for copper, 57% for nickel, 197% for zinc, 40% for coal, 152% 
for aggregates, 166% for uncoated woodfree paper, 158% 
for packaging papers and 346% for industrial sacks. In terms 
of geographic exposure, we have made significant progress 
in transforming Anglo American’s asset base, with 30% of 
our assets today in Europe, 40% in South Africa, 16% in the
Americas and the balance spread around the globe.
Improving the efficiency of our asset base
We seek continuously to improve the operating efficiency of our
existing assets. Our focus on driving returns has produced significant
results from Group-wide cost cutting programmes. We have
consistently exceeded our targets and over the last two years have
achieved total costs savings and efficiency improvements of just
over $600 million. Management is very aware of the value that can
be created by optimising existing operations and is incentivised to
achieve this.
Innovation
Improving the culture for innovation and entrepreneurialism remains 
a key driver of growth. This includes a thoroughgoing review 
of employee communication and knowledge sharing, enhanced by
a strong central technical and research function for our specialist
mining technologies. Comprehensive programmes of innovation
activity are now under way in various business units, including
Base Metals, Paper and Packaging, and Industrial Minerals. These
programmes seek to empower individuals to put forward ideas and
facilitate their translation into practical business improvements.
GROWING OUR BUSINESS
Finance
Significant progress was made during the year in diversifying the
Group’s debt capability away from pure bank credit by the placement
of euro and sterling denominated bonds. Simultaneously, the debt-
maturity profile was extended materially. We will continue to explore
opportunities to improve further the depth and flexibility of our
financing capability.
Diamonds
The earnings contribution from our 45% associate De Beers
increased by 19% to $386 million, and cash dividends received
increased by 124% to $238 million.
De Beers has successfully implemented its Supplier of Choice
business model. Having obtained approval from the European
Commission in January 2003 for its Supplier of Choice customer
strategy, the process of reconfiguring its relationship with sightholders
commenced. The strategy of stimulating interest in diamonds as a
luxury-goods category appears to be working well, with a number of
sightholders and their downstream trade partners financing advertising
03 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s statement
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
he year 2003 was notable for a high degree of political and
economic uncertainty. The first half of the year was impacted
by the war in Iraq and political tension in the Middle East, 
as well as the significant decline of the US dollar against other 
world currencies. This weakness in the dollar had a significant impact 
on the Group’s results and, in particular, on the translation of the
Group’s costs in South Africa and Australia. The second half of the
year saw some recovery in demand for commodities and significant
rises in the dollar prices for many of the Group’s products, including
platinum, gold, coal and base metals.
The Group benefited again from its wide spread of product and
geographic diversity which together offer a natural hedge against
economic conditions in any particular sector. For the first time since
our listing in 1999, the biggest contributor to headline earnings
was the Group’s interest in De Beers, which reported record results
from buoyant demand and rising prices in the diamond sector.
Although turnover increased by 22% to $25 billion, the currency
impacts referred to above affected operating profits (including the
translation of non-cash items such as goodwill amortisation and
depreciation). However, it is pleasing that the Group was able 
to report another year of strong cash flow (EBITDA), virtually
unchanged at $4,785 million. Headline earnings declined 4% 
to $1,694 million and earnings per share fell similarly by 5 cents
to 120 cents per share.
The Group continued to grow on a steady basis and during the year
benefited from the acquisition in late 2002 of the Minera Sur Andes
(formerly Disputada) copper operations in Chile, which materially
exceeded the acquisition forecast parameters, and the acquisition 
of 66.6% of South Africa’s largest iron ore producer, Kumba.
Against a background of rising commodity prices and an improving
outlook for the Group’s products, the board has decided to increase
the final dividend by 3 cents to 39 cents per share, resulting in a
total dividend of 54 cents per share for 2003, up 6%.
STRATEGY
Over the past five years we have achieved a significant restructuring
of Anglo American. What was a highly complex group has been
transformed into a world class entity with an exceptional portfolio of
high quality assets and a balanced geographic exposure. During this
period we have grown our businesses significantly through $12 billion 
of acquisitions and projects and have made disposals of $7 billion 
of non-core assets, thereby creating a focused business to deliver
improved returns to our shareholders. A major milestone was the
unwinding of the De Beers cross-holding in 2001, which unlocked
significant value. Since 1999, when we listed on the London Stock
Exchange, shareholder value has increased by $20 billion. 
Anglo American’s strategy is to achieve steady growth for its
shareholders across the cycle by investing in attractive acquisitions
as well as brownfield and greenfield projects that add value to
natural resources. Our policy of adding value and pursuing growth
covers the following key areas:
Acquisitions and organic growth
We continue to pursue both acquisition and organic-led growth 
across our business units. Anglo American has one of the strongest
pipelines of growth projects in the mining and natural resource
industry, spanning all of our key products, with around $6 billion 
of approved project capital expenditure over the next five years.
We successfully commissioned a number of projects during 2003,
including the $454 million Skorpion zinc project in Namibia which
is currently operating at 75% of design capacity. The timing of this
project appears opportune with zinc prices and demand starting to
recover from recent record lows. The Ruzomberok paper mill project
T 04 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s statement
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
CONTINUED
Base Metals
A major turnaround has been achieved in Base Metals.
The integration of Minera Sur Andes, which had its first full year 
of contribution in 2003, has provided critical mass to our copper
operations in Chile, and annual cost savings and synergies achieved
so far amount to $17 million. Anglo American is now among the
world’s top five producers of the metal, with an attributable
production of more than 700,000 tonnes a year. In September, the
Skorpion mine and refinery opened in Namibia. This is set to become
one of the world’s lowest cost zinc producers as it ramps up to full
production of 150,000 tonnes per annum. Exploration effort within
Base Metals will continue to focus on copper, with lower emphasis
on nickel and zinc, in pursuit of organic growth.
Industrial Minerals
Anglo Industrial Minerals continued to deliver a strong performance,
through a broad spread of businesses, mainly in the UK and
continental Europe. The year’s highlights included acquisitions in the
UK, France, Spain, Germany and the Czech Republic. Tarmac is now
the largest aggregates producer in the Czech Republic, and is well
placed to benefit from the country’s forthcoming entry into the EU.
In the UK, the $173 million cement plant at Buxton is undergoing
final commissioning trials and is expected to be in full production
in the second quarter of 2004. In Brazil, the new phosphate fertilizer
plant at Goiás was completed during the year, $19 million under its
budgeted cost of $147 million, and is operating at full capacity. In
China, Tarmac is developing a quarry 140 kilometres from Shanghai.
The quarry is the nearest known reserve of top quality asphalting
aggregates to China’s booming commercial capital.
Paper and Packaging
Anglo Paper and Packaging continued to develop and expand its
European and South African asset base. Mondi Packaging saw
significant transaction-led growth through the acquisition announced
in December last year of the Austrian Bauernfeind Group, a
corrugated paper and packaging business with extensive European
operations. Frantschach has entered the North American industrial
sack market with the acquisition of the Copamex sack business in
Mexico (subject to competition approval). In South Africa, the
Richards Bay pulp mill expansion is on track for commissioning its
first phase by the end of the first quarter in 2004, with completion
scheduled for just over a year later. The Russian mill, Neusiedler
Syktyvkar, is performing well and in line with the acquisition forecast.
Ferrous Metals & Industries
Anglo American has for some time sought entry into the iron ore
industry. A major development was the approval in September by
South Africa’s Competition Tribunal for the Company to acquire
shares in Kumba. In October, Anglo American’s shareholding 
in Kumba increased to just over 35% and as a consequence the
company extended a mandatory cash offer to Kumba’s shareholders,
resulting in Anglo American’s stake increasing to 66.6%. Kumba has
exciting expansion potential in iron ore through a number of projects
in South Africa and Australia. Having secured control of Kumba,
attention is now focused on meeting the black economic
empowerment (BEE) requirements in South Africa and growing 
the company. 
In line with the strategy of disposing of non-core assets, the
remaining shareholding in Li & Fung was sold for $269 million. 
The majority of our remaining stake in FirstRand was sold 
for $176 million, with the small residual amount disposed of 
in January 2004.
programmes, and diamond jewellery sales appearing to successfully
compete with, if not outperform, other luxury-goods categories.
Maintenance of this long term strategy is expected to result in a
sustainable increase in rough diamond demand.
De Beers continues to drive a continuous improvement programme
aimed at optimising all aspects of the business from production
efficiencies through to marketing, and is focused on optimising
availability of rough diamond supply from its own mines in
anticipation of further increased demand in 2004.
Platinum
Anglo Platinum’s long term objective is to grow the market for
platinum group metals and in tandem to expand output to meet this
demand. In December 2003, the company completed a detailed
review of its expansion projects in light of the stronger than
anticipated rand and weaker dollar. As a result, Anglo Platinum has
decided to slow down the development of certain of its projects but
will continue to utilise its outstanding ore reserves in growing
production to 2.9 million refined platinum ounces by 2006. In light of
its funding requirements, on 16 February 2004 Anglo Platinum
announced a R4 billion ($570 million) convertible preference share
offer. Anglo American will be subscribing for its pro rata share of the
issue and continues to believe in the fundamental long term attraction
of the platinum business.
Gold
In November, the Ghanaian government gave its backing for
AngloGold’s bid to bring about a merger with Ashanti Goldfields. 
The merger, which is expected to be completed in the first half of
2004, will create one of the world’s largest gold mining companies 
in terms of reserves and gold production. Ashanti Goldfields has six
operations spread across the African continent, including the long 
life Obuasi mine, where $1 billion is estimated to be spent over its
remaining life, including $570 million on the Obuasi Deeps project.
In order to address the challenges of margin squeeze as a function 
of reducing ore grades at some of its mines, declining global reserves
and the weak dollar, AngloGold continues its focus on operational
excellence, initiatives to increase reserves and downstream efforts 
to invigorate demand.
Coal
In the thermal coal market, Anglo Coal intends to maximise and 
grow its exports from South Africa, South America and Australia.
The export metallurgical coal capability will be further enhanced by
pursuing opportunities in Australia as well as in China and Russia.
Major expansionary capital in 2004 will include the Kriel South,
Greenside and Kleinkopje expansions in South Africa. In Australia, 
a feasibility study is under way regarding the development of 
the remainder of the Dawson complex, which incorporates Moura
and Theodore, while work continues on several other projects. In
Colombia, Cerrejón is expanding its operations to an annual output 
of 28 million tonnes of coal by 2007 . Although first-half production in
Australia will be affected by a longwall disruption at Moranbah,
Anglo Coal will benefit from the recent strong price rises for both
thermal and coking coal. 05 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s statement
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
CONTINUED
SAFETY AND HEALTH
Further progress has been made in improving the safety and health
environment for employees, with Anglo American’s lost time injury
frequency rate (LTIFR) reflecting a 58% improvement over three years,
including a 26% improvement in 2003. I am, however, disappointed
by our failure to significantly reduce fatalities compared with 2002.
We continue to stress the paramount importance of safety throughout
our operations with single-minded determination.
Good progress has been made in rolling out anti-retroviral therapy to
employees with AIDS. Over 1,000 employees were receiving
treatment as of the end of 2003 and the preliminary results are very
encouraging. Anglo American has established an ambitious partnership
with the NGO loveLife; the Global Fund to fight AIDS, TB and Malaria;
the Nelson Mandela Foundation; and the Henry J. Kaiser Foundation to
help primary health care clinics build capacity to deliver improved
HIV/AIDS prevention and care services. This public-private partnership
is the first step in the process of building an AIDS treatment
infrastructure in the communities associated with our operations.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Specific programmes to support the implementation of Good
Citizenship: Our Business Principles were introduced during
the year, with a particular focus on community issues, employee
communication and enhancing our whistle-blowing facilities. Three
year rolling Community Engagement Plans are being produced by
significant operations, to improve interaction between the Company
and the communities in which it operates. These will increasingly be
enriched by our new Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox (SEAT).
The SEAT process will support our local managers in engaging with
local stakeholders; improving management of any adverse impacts;
and working to maximise the local benefits of their presence in areas
like local business development and training. A noteworthy event
during the year was Anglo American’s inclusion in the Dow Jones
Sustainability Index for the first time.
BLACK ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT
The legislative framework governing the transformation of the
South African mining industry is continuing to emerge. We expect
promulgation of the Minerals and Petroleum Resources Development
Act later this year, together with the regulations governing its
application. The process of conversion from old order to new order
mineral rights will then begin. The South African government has
confirmed that, regarding the Royalties Bill, royalties will only become
payable in 2009 when the conversion process is complete. 
In terms of black economic empowerment (BEE), the Group continues
to make steady progress, having now recorded over $2 billion in major
transactions and over $1.5 billion in procurement and small business
promotion spend. The Group is making good progress towards
complying with the Mining Charter BEE targets.
COMMODITIES – TIME FOR A TURNAROUND?
The past 20 years have been a difficult time in the commodities
business. Steady price rises for 40 years since the end of 
World War II – notably on the back of the rise of Japan and
reconstruction in Germany, followed by the emergence of South
Korea and later Brazil – came to an end, and were even reversed,
from the early 1980s onwards. In part this was due to the end 
of the post-war reconstruction phase, combined with an oversupply
of a number of major metals. This resulted in certain commodities,
such as copper and zinc, declining to real price levels last seen in 
the 1930s.
Encouragingly, there are signs that the historical real decline in metal
prices has started to reverse. Whether this represents the start of 
a new ‘long term cycle’ is a question that will not be answered for a
few years. At present, the cycle is not obviously different from any
other strong upturn over the past 20 years, though much of the 
new optimism is based on China’s current industrial revolution, which
in 2003 alone saw industrial production growth of 17%. China has
become the world’s biggest consumer of iron ore, copper and various
other commodities. For three years running, China has also been the
primary market for platinum jewellery, with compound annual growth
rates over that period of 35%. Diamond jewellery demand is also
growing strongly. Moreover, China’s embrace of the free market is
now being tracked, albeit at lower rates of growth, by India. Between
them, the two countries look set to provide sustained demand 
for a number of commodities for years to come. The effect of this,
combined with fewer discoveries and a more disciplined industry,
is set to provide a positive backdrop to metals markets going forward.
OUTLOOK
The positive outlook for a number of our commodities provides
an encouraging platform for the year ahead. Improved economic
growth in the USA and Japan, combined with the strong industrial
performance of China, is encouraging. After two decades of generally
flat or declining real prices for metals, despite a background 
of steadily increasing demand, the backdrop for commodities is now
more positive than it has been for a number of years. Although 
the potential for a further weakening of the dollar remains a cause
for concern, this is likely to be offset by rising dollar prices for our
key commodities. 
The Group offers a unique mix of geographic and product diversity
which insulates it from the volatility associated with single-product
cycles. Our gold, platinum, diamond, coal, base and ferrous metals
businesses are benefiting from recent price rises and should continue
to enjoy steady growth. In addition, paper and packaging and
industrial minerals are generating strong cash flows. The Group will
also benefit from a number of new projects and recent acquisitions. 
On the basis of prevailing commodity prices and exchange rates, 
the Group should achieve good growth in 2004.
A J Trahar
Chief executive
