 02 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Chairman’s statement
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Q: What do you regard as the Company’s most significant
achievements of 2003?
A: Overall, Anglo’s operations did well to produce a very solid set 
of results in the face of difficult currency movements. Strategically, 
I would suggest securing final approval for the acquisition of a
controlling stake in Kumba as the most significant achievement.
This has been a long term objective. Iron ore will strengthen the
balance of our portfolio and our position has been achieved at 
a reasonable cost to shareholders.
In the non-financial arena I would identify both the provision of anti-
retroviral therapy to HIV positive staff and the introduction of the
Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox (SEAT). As far as I am aware,
SEAT is a unique initiative which will enable our operations to become
more professional and strategic in their interactions with communities.
Q: But clearly there are things with which you are not satisfied.
Where will the board be looking for the most significant improvement
in performances in 2004?
A: We have made remarkable strides in improving the Group’s 
overall safety performance over the last five years. Nonetheless,
the board remains determined to see further reductions in fatalities.
My colleagues and I visited New Denmark colliery in South Africa
in October and there we saw what can be achieved in embedding 
a safety culture through strong and focused leadership. Ben Magara,
the colliery manager, has produced substantial safety advances
coupled with performance improvements in almost all areas. Time
and again we see that teamwork, a real sense of shared objectives
amongst the workforce, and the operating disciplines needed to
deliver safe performance, lead to overall improvement of
performance. Our challenge is to ensure that the lessons of
operations like New Denmark are learned more widely.
Q: During 2003 there has been a renewed focus on corporate
governance. How does Anglo measure against the Higgs Report?
A: Markets work most efficiently where there is confidence. Clearly,
events over the last two years on both sides of the Atlantic provide
examples of how poor governance, or unhealthy dominance of strategy
by an individual or clique, have resulted in shareholders losing a lot 
of money. Society is entitled to see how such outcomes can best be
prevented. In general I think a workable structure has emerged.
Anglo American has a strong team of non-executive directors 
and we have restructured our board committees to meet the Higgs
recommendations. I am also delighted that the board has been
strengthened by the appointment of Dr Maria Silvia Bastos Marques.
She brings very pertinent experience of Latin America and of the
metals sector and is also the first woman to be elected to the Anglo
American plc board.
Q: What is the new Bonus Share Plan that is being proposed?
A: The BSP will strengthen the linkage of rewards to performance.
The new plan will require executive directors to invest a greater
proportion of their remuneration in shares up front, thereby better
aligning their interests with those of shareholders. Awards under
the BSP will be made annually and will consist of three elements: 
a cash element, a Bonus Share element and an Enhancement Share
element. These bonus awards will not be pensionable. A resolution
seeking approval for the BSP and authorising the directors to
implement it in the UK and other countries where we operate will 
be proposed at the AGM. A letter from the chairman of the
Remuneration Committee explaining the terms of the BSP is being
sent to all shareholders.
Q: Anglo has expanded its interests in Latin America. How do you
see prospects in that continent?
A: Over the last two years we have seen work start on expansions
at our Cerrejón coal operation in Colombia (of which Anglo owns a
third), Collahuasi in Chile (a world class copper operation, of which
Anglo owns 44%), our phosphates operation in Brazil (Copebrás), 
the commissioning of Loma de Níquel in Venezuela and, above all,
the acquisition of the Disputada (now known as Minera Sur Andes)
assets in Chile.
I visited almost all of our operations in Latin America during 2003.
The continent is facing some political instability. Nonetheless, Chile
continues to show the maturity of its democracy and institutions
and I have been impressed by President ‘Lula’ da Silva’s emphasis in
Brazil on macro-economic stability and on welcoming foreign direct
investment – a point which he particularly emphasised when he
opened Copebrás’ expansion project.
Q: Does Anglo have a disproportionate exposure to southern Africa?
What about continuing investor concern?
A: We remain committed to South Africa and believe that this year’s
celebrations of the transition to democracy will highlight the real
achievements of the past decade. Of course there are problems in the
region – not least the continuing turmoil in Zimbabwe and HIV/AIDS.
But South Africa itself has strong institutions and a vibrant civil
society. After the strongly negative investor reaction to the leaking of
an early draft of the Mining Empowerment Charter in 2002, the final
requirements which have emerged are financeable for fair value. It is
in the interests of South Africa’s long term stability that there should
be a rebalancing of ownership in the economy. We have been pioneers
in black economic empowerment deals and I am also pleased with the
substantial growth, R3.5 billion in 2003, in procurement from black
owned businesses. Our Zimele small business development unit is
invested in 30 growing companies, providing over 2,000 direct jobs. 
I should note too in southern Africa the consistent courage and 
skill of our managers in Zimbabwe and also the inauguration during
2003 of our Skorpion zinc mine. This will account for some 4% of
Namibia’s GDP at full production.
Q: But the Extractive Industries Review, in which you participated,
has produced a negative assessment of the impact of the mining
sector. How do you respond?
A: I was disappointed by Dr Salim’s report. It is very much a personal
appreciation, but I think it suffers from having taken very little input
from governments and relied excessively on the more radical and
absolutist end of the NGO movement. It recommends that the 
World Bank should remain involved in the sector. But it then adds 
so many caveats that its recommendations would reduce the Bank’s
involvement and, thereby, diminish the investment going to some 
of the poorest countries – for which the responsible exploitation of
resources is their best route out of poverty. I do not take lightly the
examples of how resource projects have fed corruption or conflict.
But, properly understood, these are examples of a ‘poor governance’
curse rather than a ‘resource’ curse. Anglo American has been
prominent in supporting the Extractive Industries Transparency
Initiative – which aims to tackle the misuse of revenues generated 
by the sector. The mining industry, as a long term investor, 
has an interest in good governance. We want to see the positive
development experiences of Chile, Botswana, South Africa and Oman
– or indeed, historically, Canada and Australia – shared more widely.
Q: Finally, how do you rate Anglo’s performance on sustainable
development?
A: We are making good progress. I note that one of the biggest
corporate socially responsible investment houses recently described
us as being a challenger for sector leadership in relation to corporate
social responsibility. We are doing leading-edge work in relation to
HIV/AIDS, local business development and community engagement. 
I have seen very thoughtful initiatives under way in areas like
assessing our economic and developmental impacts, climate change
and biodiversity. Of course, there are still improvements to be made
in some areas – such as target setting and in embedding best practice
more widely – but Anglo is moving strongly in the right direction.
