 6 MacLellan Report & Accounts 2005
Overview
We provide over 60 different facilities services to 
more than 1,000 customers at some 3,500 different
locations across the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
We employ in excess of 13,500 people.
We aim to be the facilities provider of choice to
customers in the retail, industrial, commercial and
public sectors in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
We deliver both multiple services on large contracts at
multiple locations or a bespoke, single service to a
customer on just one site. Our service breadth is wide
enough to include the provision of facilities services to
Sainsbury’s at 395 of their stores throughout the UK and
the provision of stewarding services to Chelsea Football
Club for every match they play at Stamford Bridge.
Approach
We strongly believe in the benefits of self performance
which means that, wherever possible, the services we
provide are undertaken by our own employees. The
single key factor which sets us apart in the facilities
services market place is our ability to effectively manage
the self performed services we provide to our customers.
It is our ability to deliver a wide range of high quality
self performed services which leads to close working
relationships with our customers. We become an
effective partner with our customers through our
willingness to understand their business needs. This
leads to high retention rates when contracts are
retendered and strong forward order visibility. Strong
earnings visibility provides us with the confidence to
invest in our own employees, their training needs and
the support structures which sit behind the front line
of service provision.
Our operating model sounds simple. After ten
acquisitions and three disposals since 1998, we know
what we can do and we have developed an operating
model which works. The results for 2005 show that
our operating model is working very effectively.
Financial review of 2005
Turnover in 2005 increased by 22% over 2004.
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation
increased by 88% over 2004 to £10.2 million. Net
operating margins before goodwill amortisation were
4.4% in 2005 (2.7% in 2004). Profit before goodwill
amortisation and taxation increased by 107% to 
£8.8 million. Fully diluted underlying earnings per
share were 6.04 pence (2004: 5.2 pence).
Net Group debt at 31 December 2005 was 
£8.2 million which included £6.9 million of net bank
borrowings. Net Group debt reduced by £5.9 million
during 2005 mainly as a result of £13.2 million of 
net cash inflow from operating activities. The Group
enjoys banking facilities of £29.2 million and our net
debt position is forecast to reduce further in 2006 
as our operations continue to generate cash. The
management of debtors showed healthy improvement
in 2005 and the 31 December 2005 debtor position
was £1.84 million lower than the position at the
previous year end despite rising turnover levels.
We have introduced a segmental analysis for 2005
which separately shows the results of our Integrated
Services activities and our Security and Specialist
Services activities. The segmental analysis reflects the
reporting structures now established within the Group.
Our Integrated Services activities increased operating
profit before goodwill amortisation by 62.8% over
2004 on turnover which increased by 2.6% over
2004. 2004 had been a difficult year for our
Integrated Services activities because of the loss of
work at the Bluewater and Touchwood Shopping
centres and the completion of the reorganisation
exercises which were required to integrate the
acquisitions made in previous years. 2005’s budget
was, therefore, consciously set with low turnover
growth but with significant profit improvement and
we are delighted that this has been successfully
achieved. Turnover growth will increase in 2006 as a
Chief Executive’s Review
John R Foley Chief Executive
We have close working
relationships with our
customers which lead to 
high retention rates MacLellan Report & Accounts 2005    7
All of our operations enjoyed a number of significant
contract wins in 2005
 
result of the significant number of new contracts secured in
the second half of 2005 and profit will grow accordingly.
Our Security and Specialist Services operations reported an
operating profit before goodwill amortisation of £5.3 million
on turnover of £68.9 million (2004: operating profit before
goodwill amortisation of £1.7 million on turnover of 
£30.3 million). The net operating margin before goodwill
amortisation increased from 5.6% in 2004 to 7.7% in 2005.
TASS and SSD remain the subject of earn out arrangements
which we anticipate will eventually result in £4.25 million 
of further payments to the vendors if the stretching profit
performance targets are achieved.
The Group entered 2005 with a £1.7 million loan stock
investment in Booth Industries Group PLC. £0.529 million 
of the loan stock was redeemed in March 2005 with a
related premium and we have been notified that a further
£0.5 million will be redeemed in March 2006.
Operational review
The major challenges which faced us at the start of 2005
concerned the management of the introduction of licensing
of all employed security officers throughout our security
operations and the continuing upgrading of our support
systems so that we can continue to improve the quality of
service delivery to our customers through the use of the
latest technology and equipment.
Licensing has been the dominant issue facing all
organisations which operate in the security marketplace.
We have three operations which employ a significant number
of officers (First Security, MacLellan Attlaw and MacLellan
International). All three operations have made great efforts
to be on top of the relevant training and vetting issues so
that we fully comply with the Security Industry Authority’s
requirements. We are confident that we will obtain Approved
Contractor Status at the earliest possible opportunity.
Our Integrated Services activities continued to make further
positive advances on the systems development front and
MacLellan International’s IT Steering Group was particularly
busy during the year. New business analytics software has
been successfully introduced which provides for both a
speedier and more detailed level of financial and operational
information to be available to our managers. The “Order
Point” System introduced in 2004 which raises orders within
a single, safe electronic catalogue portal has been rolled out
throughout the company. The MacLellan Audit Process
System has been successfully introduced to many of our
larger multi site contracts and the response from our
customers has been very positive.
Our Security operations further developed their control 
room capabilities and increased the scope of their services 
to provide a range of very specific value added services 
to complement their core manned guarding capabilities.
Growth
All of our operations enjoyed a number of significant
contract wins in 2005.
MacLellan International secured major new contracts with
Sainsbury’s, Somerfield, Superdrug, Southwark Council,
BAe Systems, BMI, Cushman Wakefield, Mellon Bank and
Prudential Property Investment Managers. MacLellan
International’s confirmed forward order book currently sits 
at approximately £470 million and over 90% of its 2006
turnover budget is already secured.
First Security has extended the range of its operations outside
the M25 and along the M4 corridor with contract wins at Sony
and Newbury Business Park as well as securing new work for
Reuters, Somerset House, CSFB and Societe Generale.
MacLellan Attlaw commenced new work with South West
Trains during 2005 and continues to develop its integrated
security offering into the retail sector with a combination of
a specialist training service capability, an electronic security
offering and a nationwide manned guarding capability.
MacLellan Attlaw is also a Specialist at events security and
has secured a major contract win at the new Wembley
Stadium where work is expected to commence late in 2006.
TASS continued to secure a number of significant contract
wins in the cradle maintenance and fall arrest markets in
which it operates and 90% of its turnover budget for 2006 is
already secured. SSD Window Cleaning won new contracts
during 2005 with Bruntwood Estates, Mainstay Housing
Corporation and ABN Amro.
Our employees
I would like, on behalf of the Board, to thank our
management and employees for their continuing
commitment and hard work.
In addition, the courage and willingness to help others of
many of our employees is also something which the Board
would like to recognise. Last summer was of course
dominated by the dreadful events of 7 July. Above and
beyond the call of duty is perhaps an over used and clichéd
phrase but it certainly applies in the case of our employees’
response to the Tavistock Square bombing where a number
of First Security’s officers and MacLellan International
employees were working at the BMA. In addition, many
MacLellan Attlaw security officers were working at rail
network locations. Throughout the City of London on that
day many of our employees were called upon in ways they
had never experienced before and, hopefully, will never
experience again. Their actions showed real courage and 
we are proud to have such strong characters in our team.
Challenges for 2006
I said last year that the biggest single challenge for 2005
was to deliver significant growth at the earnings per share
level through continuing organic growth and improved
operating performance. The same applies for 2006; once
again, management is looking forward to the challenge.
John R Foley
Chief Executive
15 March 2006
