 02 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2004
CHAIRMAN’S QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q. While the financial performance for 2004 was good, 
do you feel that enough was done to strengthen the
fundamentals of the business?
A. Yes. Our earnings were strong but this was not purely a
function of commodity prices. They reflect, for example, 
the value adding nature of the acquisitions made over the
last four years – especially Minera Sur Andes, Syktyvkar,
Cerrejón – and the De Beers transaction. These have produced
a stronger and more balanced portfolio. Who, in the past,
would have predicted the pre-eminence of Latin America 
in our 2004 earnings? Nor, in a year of ‘plenty’, have we
rested on our laurels. We have realised a further $554 million
in cost savings. Through the merger with Ashanti Goldfields,
AngloGold’s resource base and growth prospects have been
strengthened. Reorganisations within Anglo Platinum and
Paper and Packaging have been carried out. We launched a
drive to encourage innovation and greater entrepreneurialism.
The fundamentals of the business are stronger than they
were 12 months ago. 
Q. Many of the opportunities which Anglo is examining are
in ‘new geographies’. Do you think you are properly
equipped to manage the risks involved?
A. Actually, we have a strong project pipeline in very familiar
regions – southern Africa, South America, eastern Europe
and Australia. We are also looking at new geographies,
chiefly China, Russia and India, since each has the potential
to be a major growth market as well as a significant
commodities producer. Our approach has been to become
involved, initially in a relatively limited way, while we seek
to better understand the risks of doing business in each. 
The board is very supportive of this and believes it is one 
of Anglo’s strengths. When I went to China, for example, 
I visited small Anglo businesses in quarrying and drilling
equipment and was briefed on three other potential
opportunities. Similarly, we held a stake in Syktyvkar in
Russia for five years before taking control. This gradualist
approach gives us a better feel for the operating
environment in new countries. 
Q. There was a controversy about Anglo’s judgement of
political risk in South Africa – where do things now
stand on this?
A. The problem was never our perception of political risk – but
those of some people in the international capital markets.
These concerns are largely the legacy of the leaking of an
early draft of the Mining Empowerment Charter in 2002.
Confidence has been returning as this memory has receded
and this will be given momentum by the successful
conversion of ‘old order’ mineral rights. We remain committed
to South Africa and are strongly supportive of the agreed
scorecard approach in the Mining Act and the need to deliver
on it – hence our big continuing investment programme. 
To an extent I can share the frustration of the South African
government. It has pursued exemplary macro-economic
policies and deserves to have been rewarded with more
foreign direct investment. 
Q. Anglo is used to thinking about physical assets, finance
and technology. Are you as good at nurturing talent?
A. I would like to thank our employees for their commitment in
2004. During my site visits and at the centre I have been
impressed by the calibre of Anglo’s people. I like the fact
that we typically entrust most senior operational posts to
locally recruited managers. We have become much more
strategic and proactive in creating a performance-driven
culture, career and talent management, addressing
shortcomings in our engagement with employees and in
moving to a more diverse workforce. We have been better 
at the traditional ‘hard’ skills, but the board has identified
‘people’ issues as a strategic priority and we are now
definitely moving in the right direction. 
Q. What do you see as the non-financial highlights of 2004?
A. I would highlight four. First, Anglo became a signatory to the
UN Global Compact – the ten principles of which we fully
support – and made all the preparations to become a party 
to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.
Secondly, our work on HIV/AIDS continued to progress, 
with some 2,200 employees now on anti-retrovirals and 
an improved uptake of voluntary counselling and testing.
Thirdly, our innovative Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox
process had an enthusiastic take-up at site level, with some
30 assessments already under way. Fourthly, we reorganised
how we bring the strands of sustainable development
together and instituted a project to improve our calibration 
of sustainable development risk. The benefits of these
changes will come through during 2005. 
Q. Y ou are closely identified with ‘sustainable development’
and ‘corporate responsibility’ – how would you answer
those who say it is a peripheral issue or, as in the
recent Economist article, that business should just
concentrate on profits for shareholders?
A. Sustainable development is absolutely central to the future
acceptability of our business and to its ongoing success and
profitability. Our businesses have high environmental and
social impacts, many deplete a non-renewable (albeit generally
recyclable) resource, and global concerns like climate change
and HIV/AIDS are highly relevant to us. These issues 
reflect upon our licence to operate, our sustainability as an
investment, our ability to attract the most talented recruits
and our acceptability to governments and communities.
Moreover, our ability to understand and address societal
concerns is fundamental to our good name and the value 
of that reputation. 
Q. Are you concerned that other stakeholders, like
governments and more assertive communities, 
want to increase their share of the profits from 
your operations?
A. Every enterprise faces tensions around how rewards are
shared – investors, employees, suppliers and customers all
want their ‘fair share’. In the natural resources business
there are more parties to the process. For much of the last
30 years mining has been a value destroyer for investors.
Governments tend to overlook the lean times when
proposing new or higher taxes in years like this. During
2005, Chile and South Africa are both planning to decide
upon a royalty regime. Such taxes have implications for
competitiveness, investment and employment. Some
communities feel they get a raw deal when fiscal benefits
are often only felt at a national level. We seek to improve
the local development effects of our businesses but it is
important too for national governments to ensure that a
proportion of tax revenues is shared with local people. 
Q. Were there any major disappointments in 2004 – 
if so, how do you intend to rectify them?
A. The increase in fatalities at our managed operations from 
44 to 49 was of course a major disappointment. There was 
a welcome further improvement in the lost time injury
frequency rate of 23%, but we are not prepared to be
philosophical about the death of any employee or contractor.
There is already an emphasis on improving safety at all sites,
but it is evidently not enough. Thus, we must continue to
emphasise visible felt leadership in the field of safety, focus
on safety for contractors – who made up over half the 2004
7878v03_PH_Rp_FC-p27_020305.qxp  4/3/05  2:04 am  Page 02
