 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2004 03
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
STATEMENT
fatalities – and seek to focus on leading indicators such as
‘near hits’ and tackling unsafe behaviour. We have made
good progress over the last four years and we will do our
utmost to return to the path of improvement. 
Q. What changes are planned in the composition 
of the board? 
A. Bill Nairn, our technical director, retired from the board at 
the end of 2004. I am grateful for the experience that he
brought to the Group and especially his relentless focus 
on safety. At the AGM, two non-executive directors will 
be retiring: Sir David Scholey and Göran Lindahl. Sir David
steps down after a long association with the Anglo Group,
including serving as a director since December 1999. Göran
has brought his wide international experience and knowledge
of sustainable development to our deliberations. We shall
miss them.
One new independent non-executive director, Ralph
Alexander, will be proposed at the AGM. He is an American
citizen and is chief executive of BP Petrochemicals. He brings
extensive experience of the energy business and has a
strong international background. Two new executive directors
will also be proposed: David Hathorn and Simon Thompson,
respectively chief executives of the Paper and Packaging and
Base Metals businesses. Both have played a major part in
the international expansion of the Group. In addition, it is
proposed that René Médori be elected a director with effect
from 1 June 2005. René, a French national, who has
extensive experience of UK and US business cultures, 
will be joining us from The BOC Group plc, where he is
finance director. He will succeed Tony Lea as finance director
in September and Tony will leave the board in December.
In relation to the Combined Code requirement to ‘comply 
or explain’ I should mention that we will briefly be 
non-compliant in that from June to December less than 
half the board, excluding myself, will be independent 
non-executive directors. I believe that this is fully justified 
in ensuring continuity and a smooth handover between 
Tony and René. 
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart 
Chairman
One of the dominant features of 2004 was the increased
demand for a range of commodities as China’s industrialising
economy continued to consume more raw materials. Copper,
nickel, zinc, coal and iron ore markets all benefited materially
and a number of these commodities reached their highest price
levels for many years. As a result of these strong conditions as
well as rising platinum, gold and diamond prices, Anglo American
reported record headline earnings of $2.69 billion and headline
earnings per share increased by 57% to $1.88 per share. 
Nonetheless, the year was dominated by two major influences –
volatile global markets, largely because of the uncertain outlook
in the Middle East; and the possibility of a marked slowdown in
China’s economic growth rate. During the second, and again in
the fourth quarter of the year, markets grew concerned that
official Chinese attempts to slow down excessive investment
and growth would result in a ‘hard landing’. During each of these
periods, metals prices responded by dropping sharply and then
rebounding fairly quickly. Chinese GDP growth is now projected
to average around 8% for 2005. 
In line with the board’s policy of progressively increasing
dividends, the board has decided to increase the final dividend
by 12 cents to 51 cents per share, resulting in a total dividend
of 70 cents per share for 2004, up 30%.
STRATEGY
Since our primary London listing in mid-1999, Anglo American
has grown by over 70%, with a present market capitalisation
now approaching $38 billion. Our strong cash generation
has been matched by one of the largest capital expenditure
programmes in the industry. Our existing $4.7 billion project
pipeline and more than $8 billion in unapproved projects, spread
across all our business units and geographies, provide an
excellent platform for growth going forward. We will continue 
to enhance and add value to Anglo’s portfolio of world-class
assets in all areas; in particular, through:
Securing the most competitive cost of capital
Owning world-class assets
Anglo’s high-calibre employees 
Innovation and entrepreneurship
Development of world-class technology
Maintaining high standards of sustainable development
Becoming the business partner of choice to suppliers, 
customers and key stakeholders.
Our strategy for future investment remains focused around the
three key areas that make up our portfolio, namely Precious
Commodities, Metals and Minerals, and Paper and Packaging.
ACQUISITIONS AND ORGANIC GROWTH
Although Anglo American remains cautious about valuations at
this point in the cycle, the Group continues to examine expansion
and acquisition opportunities in all its business sectors.
The following overview of our business units covers key
developments; detailed summaries of operating performances
are contained on pages 7 to 14 of this report.
Platinum
We are actively focusing on achieving further business optimisation 
in Anglo Platinum. The strong level of the South African rand
continues to materially affect the rate of expansion and also
operating costs when translated into US dollars. The projects that
have been earmarked for development will continue to be reviewed
in light of the strong rand. 
7878v03_PH_Rp_FC-p27_020305.qxp  4/3/05  2:04 am  Page 03 4 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2004
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
CONTINUED
Despite the loss of production due to industrial action during
October, arising out of wage negotiations, Anglo Platinum
achieved its 2004 target of producing 2.45 million ounces 
of refined platinum. The company recently established a 
co-operative joint venture contract with Sichuan Mineral Resource
Company to conduct exploration for platinum group metals in
China's Sichuan Province.
Gold
One of the most significant transactions of the year was the
merger of AngloGold and Ashanti Goldfields, which was completed
in April. The merger has resulted in a substantial increase in gold
reserves against a background of a diminishing global reserve
base. AngloGold Ashanti continues to pursue further growth
opportunities in new frontiers such as Laos, the Philippines 
and Russia, in partnership with junior mining and exploration
companies. AngloGold Ashanti, in which Anglo American holds 
a 51% stake, is the world’s second largest gold mining company
in terms of production. 
Diamonds
De Beers’ strategy of Supplier of Choice, which focuses 
on driving demand in the diamond industry, continues to be
implemented successfully. Central to this has been the realignment
of De Beers’ relationship with its sightholders, a process that 
is now substantially complete and that has brought about
considerable benefits for De Beers and the diamond industry 
as a whole. De Beers’ $180 million a year advertising and
marketing spend has been significantly bolstered by an increase
in advertising programmes by sightholders and their downstream
trade partners. Following years of underperformance in terms of
market share, diamonds are now competing successfully with
other luxury goods. At the retail level, sales of diamonds worldwide
exceeded $60 billion for the first time.
An important breakthrough took place in July when De Beers
announced that it had reached a settlement with the US
Department of Justice for the resolution of a longstanding case
against De Beers in respect of industrial diamonds. The resolution
of the case underscores the company’s commitment to be fully
legally compliant throughout the world.
In December, De Beers announced that it had secured a 25 year
renewal of all four mining leases in Botswana, on a coterminous
basis. De Beers and the European Commission are in the final
stages of a constructive dialogue to address the Commission’s
concerns over aspects of the five year trade agreement between
De Beers and Russian diamond producer Alrosa. 
Base Metals
On the back of high base metals prices and record production 
of copper, nickel, zinc and mineral sands products, Base Metals
achieved record headline earnings of just over $1 billion. 
The acquisition of Minera Sur Andes was a major contributor
to this performance with headline earnings of $430 million. 
A significant achievement during the year was the Skorpion zinc
mine in Namibia commencing commercial production in May and
achieving 95% of design capacity by year end. Commissioning
of the $654 million Collahuasi Rosario Project in Chile commenced
in April, some five weeks ahead of schedule and under budget.
The project rapidly achieved design capacity and will enable
Collahuasi to maintain production of copper in concentrate at 
a long term average rate of 400,000 tonnes per annum. 
Codemin, in Brazil, became a wholly-owned subsidiary following
the purchase of the remaining 10% from the International Finance
Corporation, and the expansion project was completed on time
and on budget and will ramp up to full capacity during the first
quarter of 2005. In line with Base Metals’ strategy of focusing
on fewer, larger, lower cost assets, its 25% stake in Nkomati
Nickel was disposed of in February for $37 million and Hudson
Bay in Canada was sold for $257 million.
Coal
In December, Anglo American and Mitsui announced the
approval of the $653 million Dawson Complex, which will
include the recapitalisation of the existing operation at Moura 
in central Queensland, Australia and the establishment of two
additional operations on adjacent tenures. This will increase
production by 5.7 million tonnes per annum over Moura’s
existing saleable production of 7 million tonnes per annum. 
In October, Anglo American and Kumba signed Heads of
Agreement that could lead to the development of a major 
coking coal mine in central Queensland.
In August, Anglo Coal and Eyesizwe announced that they 
were entering into a 50:50 joint venture to mine the Arnot 
North coal reserves, known as Mafube Colliery, and mining has
commenced. A new opencast operation, the Isibonelo Colliery, is
being developed to provide Sasol with 5 million tonnes of coal per
annum. Production is due to commence in mid-2005. Anglo Coal
and BHP Billiton are jointly investigating the proposed expansion
of coal resources in the Western Complex in South Africa.
In Colombia the approved expansion at Cerrejón from 22 million
to 28 million tonnes per annum is on schedule and should be
achieved by 2007. 
Paper and Packaging
In April, Anglo American’s wholly-owned subsidiary Mondi
acquired the remaining 30% interest in Frantschach for a total
consideration of $390 million. The acquisitions of Copamex’s
industrial packaging businesses (renamed Mondimex) and Roman
Bauernfeind were completed in the first quarter of 2004 and are
performing according to expectations, having strengthened
Mondi’s position in the North American and central European
markets respectively.
In November, Mondi announced a major restructuring focused 
on global product lines, namely Mondi Business Paper and Mondi
Packaging. The reorganisation has streamlined and rebranded the
existing businesses under the Mondi name, allowing the group to
improve its visibility to customers and to reduce its overhead costs.
Industrial Minerals
In the UK, Anglo Industrial Minerals’ new cement plant at Buxton
commenced operating in March and is ramping up to full capacity
of 800,000 tonnes per annum. The project cost of £110 million
was £5 million below budget. In China, the Yang Quarry,
situated 140 kilometres from Shanghai and the closest reserve
of top-quality asphalt aggregates to China’s commercial capital,
commenced production at the end of the year. Production will 
be ramped up during 2005. Following completion of the Goiás
project in 2003, Copebrás almost doubled its contribution on the
back of buoyant Brazilian fertiliser markets. 
Ferrous Metals and Industries
With global steel production surpassing 1 billion tonnes for the
first time, the contribution from Ferrous Metals and Industries’
operations increased more than fourfold. Regarding Kumba's
Hope Downs iron ore project in Australia, which has been the
subject of a dispute with a local partner, Kumba is appealing a
recent arbitration decision. Subject to Kumba’s rights of appeal,
the process for determining a fair value, at which the local
partner can elect to acquire Kumba’s project interest, has
commenced. Until Kumba’s participation in the project is finally
resolved, it continues to perform its contractual obligations in
respect of the project.
7878v03_PH_Rp_FC-p27_020305.qxp  2/3/05  11:52 pm  Page 4 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2004 05
SAFETY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
It is with deep regret that we report the deaths of 28 contractors
and 21 employees in accidents at our operations during the year.
This represented an increase of five deaths compared with 2003,
following four years of consistent decline. Such accidents are
wholly unacceptable and we will be redoubling our efforts to
eliminate them. It was encouraging, however, that the lost time
injury frequency rate improved by 23% – which indicates
success in embedding safer behaviour at site level.
We have made significant progress in addressing the sustainable
development agenda, including launching our Socio-Economic
Assessment Toolbox; making strides in improving local business
development and initiating a pilot sustainable development risk
management process.
SOUTH AFRICA: BLACK ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT
During the year, several developments took place concerning the
legislative framework governing the transformation process in
South Africa’s mining industry. Most notably, the Mineral and
Petroleum Resources Development Act, which aims to make
transformation effective across a broad front – including human
resources and community development, as well as employment
equity – came into effect on 1 May 2004. All South African
mining operations are focused on the implementation of this Act.
Anglo American has submitted a number of applications to convert
‘old order’ mineral rights into ‘new order’ rights. The Group hopes
to be able to report progress in this regard later in the year. 
During the year the South African government confirmed 
that royalties in terms of the Royalty Bill will become payable
only in 2009; a second draft of the Royalty Bill is expected 
to be unveiled in the future.
We have adopted a comprehensive approach to transformation 
in South Africa, including the establishment of a Transformation
Committee, which has been integrated with all the business units’
activities. Procurement remains an important area of focus: over
the last year we spent the equivalent of $900 million on business
development and the procurement of goods and services from
black-owned businesses, up 62% on the previous year. 
Mondi South Africa concluded two significant empowerment
transactions during 2004. First in June, a joint venture was
formed with Shanduka Resources (formerly MCI Resources) 
in its integrated newsprint business, with Mondi retaining 
a 58% interest and, secondly, Mondi disposed of 42% of its 
$370 million South African packaging businesses to Shanduka,
effective 1 January 2005. These empowerment transactions
allowed for further interests in the newsprint and packaging
businesses to be set aside for broad based participation by 
Mondi South Africa employees and relevant communities.
DISPOSALS
During 2004, a number of disposals were made. These 
included Anglo American’s 20% stake in Gold Fields Limited 
for $1.18 billion, the remaining interest in FirstRand Limited for
$47 million and the Group’s 49% stake in Terra Industries Inc for
$255 million. In line with Base Metals’ strategy of focusing on
fewer, larger, lower cost assets, its 25% stake in Nkomati Nickel
was disposed of in February for $37 million and Hudson Bay in
Canada was sold for $257 million in December. Anglo American
and BHP Billiton have recently announced the sale of their
respective 40% and 60% shareholdings in Samancor Chrome
for an enterprise value of $469 million, the sale will be effective 
1 April 2005, subject to obtaining regulatory approvals.
OUTLOOK
The outlook for the year ahead is very dependent upon growth
prospects for Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD) countries and China. While the leading
indicators for the OECD currently point to some slowing of
industrial output growth during the first half, China continues 
to grow strongly and will remain a vital market for many of our
commodities. On the supply side, global output is generally set
to increase and much will depend on the industry maintaining
capital discipline in the face of higher commodity prices. A key
challenge for the Group will be to continue improving operating
efficiencies and cost control against a background of volatile
currencies and, in particular, a weak US dollar. In the meantime,
Anglo American’s geographic and commodity diversity, its
significant project pipeline, its disciplined acquisition process and
strong cash generation will continue to underpin performance. 
OUR EMPLOYEES
At the end of 2004, Bill Nairn retired as technical director. 
I would like to thank Bill for his long and dedicated service 
to the Group. He has been succeeded as technical director by
Tony Redman, who is also chairman of Anglo Coal, and who 
has been appointed to the Executive Board. In February 2005,
we announced the appointment of Lazarus Zim as chief
executive officer and Godfrey Gomwe as chief operating officer
of Anglo American Corporation of South Africa. Lazarus will 
also chair the South Africa Transformation Committee and has
joined the Executive Board. Finally, my appreciation and thanks
go to all our employees worldwide who, through their hard 
work and dedication, have helped make this a record year for
Anglo American.
A J Trahar
Chief Executive
7878v03_PH_Rp_FC-p27_020305.qxp  4/3/05  2:04 am  Page 05
