 About
Anglo
American
04 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Chairman’s statement
“ During 2007, Anglo American made great  
progress in becoming a focused mining  
company and showed it is prepared to pursue  
new business opportunities more aggressively  
in order to seek out and unlock value”  
About
Anglo
American
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 05
	 s e e 	 a l s o
p 14
	 O p e r a t i n g 	 a n d 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 r e v i e w
p61
	 D i r e c t o r s ’ 	 r e p o r t
Anglo American delivered another exceptional 
financial performance in 2007. We made 
significant progress in achieving our strategic 
objective of becoming a focused mining group, 
principally through the demerger of Mondi,  
the decision to sell Tarmac, our construction 
materials business, and the further reduction  
in our holdings in AngloGold Ashanti and 
Tongaat-Hulett. This greater focus provided a 
strong platform for the Group to move into a 
more expansionary mode where value creating 
opportunities exist.
Given the greater homogeneity between 
our mining businesses, important steps are 
being taken to realise the benefits of a  
‘One Anglo’ approach in relation to 
procurement, support services, talent and 
knowledge management.
 2007 was another disappointing year for 
safety, with 40 fatalities – a reduction of only 
four over the prior year. The Board strongly 
endorsed the much higher profile on safety 
adopted by our new chief executive.  
Cynthia Carroll has succeeded in communicating  
that ‘business as usual’ is not an acceptable 
approach in the face of the deaths and injuries 
occurring at some of our operations. There may 
be some loss of production in the short term, 
but this is a sacrifice well worth making if it 
produces a safety performance based upon a 
culture of care and respect for our workforce 
and contractors. Moreover, we believe that  
safe operations generally excel in terms of 
efficiency and productivity. There were signs  
of improvement in the second half of the year,  
but it is too early to say if this is sustainable.
Changing global economy
The growth of China, India and other emerging 
markets is transforming the balance of power  
in the world economy at an unprecedented rate. 
This will involve the emergence of more 
customers and competitors as well as potential 
partners from these countries. Given our  
well-established presence in China and our 
commitment to develop projects there, we are 
well placed to build from this platform. 
High commodity prices have sharpened  
the competition between stakeholders – 
governments, communities, unions, suppliers – 
to secure a bigger share of the current market 
upside. We have seen changes in the fiscal 
regime of a number of countries to reflect this. 
As part of our empowerment transactions  
in South Africa we have sought to encourage 
equity participation by local communities  
and employees.
Benefits to communities
Throughout the world we are seeking to 
increase the beneficial development impacts of 
our operations. I would highlight two strands of 
work. Firstly, our Socio-Economic Assessment 
Toolbox (SEAT) process which progressed to  
an updated version in 2007. This improves the 
understanding of people in our operations of the 
needs and priorities of their local communities 
and enables them to make a greater contribution 
to local development. Secondly, we are seeking 
to replicate the success of our South African 
enterprise development unit, Anglo Zimele.  
This is already being achieved in Chile where 
our microfinance initiative helped over  
900 business people to get established last 
year. During 2008, we hope to establish a 
similar initiative in Brazil.
However, if companies are to have a 
continuing incentive to invest and to develop 
deposits in riskier jurisdictions, all stakeholders 
need to recall the cyclical nature of our business 
and the current intense cost pressures facing 
the industry. Benefit sharing models have to 
reflect periods of market weakness as well  
as the good times.
The current commodity cycle has been 
driven by both strong demand and limited 
supply. Demand has been strong against a 
backdrop of synchronised expansion across the 
major economies and has been fuelled by rapid 
urbanisation in China.
Significant supply constraints include over-
heating in the supply chain and the fact that 
projects are typically taking longer to secure the 
necessary consents. But a crucial learning is the 
role that sustainable development concepts will 
play as we bring new operations to account. 
Thus, we find ourselves giving increasing 
attention to skills, energy security and climate 
change, water shortages and the legacy in a 
number of countries of under-investment in 
critical infrastructure.
In response to skills shortages, we are 
investing strongly in scholarships, bursaries  
and internships, pre-employment training and  
in raising the educational attainments of some 
of our existing workforce to enable them  
to progress. For the longer term, the Anglo 
American-funded Epoch and Optima trusts have 
identified the teaching of maths and science in 
South African schools as a priority – resulting  
in an annual injection of approximately  
$5 million of additional funds.
Energy and water challenges
Last year will be seen as the year when 
electricity supplies began to move noticeably 
out of balance with demand in a number  
of important countries where we operate, 
including South Africa, Chile and Brazil. The 
ability to resolve these shortfalls is constrained 
by the high costs of construction and limited 
availability of key capital goods. Thus, a key 
objective is to achieve a step-change in our 
energy efficiency. This will, in turn, contribute 
to our environmental objective of reducing our 
carbon footprint – alongside abatement projects 
such as using methane in electricity generation 
or carbon capture and storage in Australia;  
co-investment in the FutureGen project in the 
US; and taking forward Clean Development 
Mechanism projects.
Water shortages have become more 
pronounced in a number of important mining 
countries. This requires us to innovate. In  
South Africa, for example, it has led to the 
establishment of the Emalahleni water 
treatment plant which converts waste mine 
water into water suitable for domestic and 
industrial uses. We also need to improve  
the efficiency of our production processes.  
An example of this is our Los Bronces expansion 
project in Chile where we will reduce our use  
of fresh water by some 40% per tonne of 
copper produced.
Board and employees
In regard to Board membership, I would like to 
note the departure of Tony Trahar who stepped 
down as chief executive in March; David Hathorn, 
chief executive of Mondi; Simon Thompson, 
executive director of Anglo American plc; and of 
Bobby Godsell, who retired last year as chief 
executive of AngloGold Ashanti and who is 
stepping down from our Board after many years’ 
service to the Group in both executive and non-
executive roles. Ralph Alexander also retired as a 
non-executive director as a result of other work 
commitments. I would like to record our thanks to 
each of them. As part of the process of refreshing 
the Board, I am pleased that Sir CK Chow has 
agreed to submit himself for election as a director 
at the AGM.
In closing, I would like to thank our employees 
for their work in delivering a further set of 
impressive results and in contributing to the 
countries and communities where we work. ■
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart
Chairman
