 About
Anglo
American
06 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Chief executive’s statement
“ 2007 was a year of change for our business – one  
in which we continued to deliver strong returns for 
shareholders while also streamlining our business  
and laying the foundations for greater efficiency 
gains, as well as stronger growth into the future”  
About
Anglo
American
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 07
 ExPAn Ding OUr AssEt BAsE
During 2007, we were active in 
identifying and acquiring major new 
projects, particularly copper and iron 
ore, to deliver significant volume  
growth over the next decade
•  Potential copper output  
of 1.6 Mtpa by 2016
•  Potential iron ore output  
of 150 Mtpa by 2017
 	
15%
I n c r e a s e 	 i n 	 fi n a l 	 d i v i d e n d
	 2 0 0 7 	 h i g h l i g h t s
$12bn
	 P r o j e c t s 	 u n d e r 	 d e v e l o p m e n t
Record financial performance
In my first year as chief executive, I am pleased 
to report a record financial performance by 
Anglo American. We achieved our highest ever 
operating profit of $10.1 billion and underlying 
earnings of $5.8 billion, with continued strong 
cash generation. Once again, we are announcing 
an increased final dividend – 86 US cents per 
share, up 15% on 2006.
The strength of our performance was due to 
improved production volumes of ferrous metals, 
copper and zinc, an increased focus on 
operational discipline and a continuation of the 
supportive trading environment. During 2007, 
high prices were realised for most of the Group’s 
commodities, although these benefits were 
partially offset by adverse currency movements, 
supply-side constraints and ongoing pressure 
on costs across the mining sector. 
New approach to safety
2007 marked a turning point in our approach to 
safety. Our past and current number of 
fatalities and injuries is simply unacceptable.  
I strongly believe that optimally run businesses 
have good safety records. 
We have launched a series of new 
initiatives to drive consistent safety messages 
and practices across our business. 
We have shown that we are prepared to do 
what is necessary to meet this challenge head 
on by shutting down mine shafts where safety 
performance has not been up to standard, to 
retrain affected employees and to conduct a 
thorough investigation of operating conditions. 
Significant progress was made between the 
first and second halves of the year and I expect 
our operations to build upon this momentum  
in 2008.
Delivering our strategic 
objectives
I have been very clear about my ambition for 
Anglo American – our goal is to become the 
leading global mining company. 
The year under review has seen a 
combination of strategic restructuring and a 
period of building from a position of strength, 
including the identification and execution of 
opportunities to drive new growth and value.
The restructuring of Anglo American is 
almost complete and it is now that we can focus 
on the operational improvements that will be 
delivered by our asset optimisation programme 
and the cultural change that we are implementing 
across the Group.
During the year, we made good strategic 
progress. In May, we disposed of our remaining 
29% holding in Highveld Steel and Vanadium, 
and, in June, the unbundling of Hulamin from 
Tongaat-Hulett was completed.
Mondi, our paper and packaging business, 
was demerged in early July and established  
as a dual-listed company on the London and 
Johannesburg stock exchanges. In line with our 
intention to ultimately exit AngloGold Ashanti, 
we reduced our holding to 16.6%, realising in 
excess of $2.9 billion. 
In August, we announced plans to sell 
Tarmac. Tarmac has a leading position in the  
UK construction materials industry, and is well 
positioned in certain key markets in continental 
Europe and the Middle East. Tarmac had a  
very strong operational performance in 2007, 
with a number of its business improvement 
initiatives starting to make a significant impact. 
It is expected that the performance of Tarmac 
will continue to underpin a competitive  
sale process; however, it has been decided  
not to launch the marketing phase of the  
sale process until current credit market 
conditions improve.
We also made progress during 2007 in 
meeting the employment equity and black 
economic empowerment requirements of the 
South African Mining Charter, including 
groundbreaking equity participation 
arrangements in Anglo Platinum’s assets.
In February 2008, the South African 
Department of Minerals and Energy confirmed  
it would award Anglo American with all its new 
order mining rights, subject to completion of 
outstanding documentation, by 31 March 2008. 
This is a landmark achievement for the Group 
and for the many black empowered businesses 
with which we are partnered. 
Expanding our asset base
During 2007, we were active in identifying  
and acquiring major new projects, particularly 
copper and iron ore, to deliver significant 
volume growth over the next decade. 
The Group has a tremendous project 
pipeline, one of the strongest in the sector, 
building on our unique portfolio of existing 
assets and delivering considerable organic 
growth potential. We have a number of major 
projects under development, involving 
investment of some $12 billion across all our 
businesses. In addition, we have a further  
$29 billion of projects under consideration. 
2008 will also see our planned expansions 
delivering significant new production in iron  
ore and coal. About
Anglo
American
08 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
Chief executive’s statement
Several projects were approved in Anglo 
Platinum during the year, in particular the  
$279 million expansion at the base metals 
refinery, the $139 million Townlands ore 
replacement project and the $188 million 
Mainstream inert grind projects. The $692 million 
PPRust North expansion project is in progress 
and will mill an additional 600,000 tonnes of  
ore per month.
Anglo Coal has approved expansion 
programmes in both South Africa and Australia. 
The recently approved $505 million, 6.6 million 
tonnes per annum (Mtpa) Zondagsfontein 
project will form an important component of 
plans to increase Anglo Coal’s South African 
production by 50% to around the 90 Mtpa  
level by 2015. 
In November we announced the approval of 
the $1.7 billion expansion of Los Bronces in Chile. 
First production is scheduled for 2011 and will 
increase copper production to an initial level 
exceeding 400,000 tpa, making Los Bronces one 
of the ten largest copper mines in the world. Also 
in Chile, a two phase expansion at Collahuasi is 
being considered. In Brazil, the Barro Alto project is 
on schedule to boost the Group’s nickel output, 
with first production due in 2010.
At Kumba Iron Ore, the commissioning  
of the $754 million, 13 Mtpa Sishen Expansion 
Project commenced during the year, with ramp 
up to full production anticipated in 2009. 
In Canada’s Northwest Territories,  
De Beers’ Snap Lake, the country’s only 
underground diamond mine, delivered its first 
diamonds in October and plans to produce 
approximately 1.6 million carats per annum. 
In Botswana, De Beers is reviewing a number  
of development opportunities. 
Turning to acquisitions, we made 
considerable progress towards achieving our aim 
of becoming a significant player in the global 
seaborne iron ore trade. In July, we purchased a 
49% stake in the MMX Minas-Rio iron ore 
project in Brazil for an effective price of  
$1.15 billion, plus a potential payment of  
up to $600 million if certain criteria are met. 
Furthermore, in January 2008, Anglo American 
announced that it was in exclusive discussions 
with MMX’s majority shareholder to acquire 
control of the Minas-Rio project and the Amapá 
iron ore mine for approximately $5.5 billion if  
we acquire 100% of the interest held by MMX  
in these assets.
In April, we announced the acquisition of  
the Michiquillay copper project in northern Peru 
for $403 million. Michiquillay is one of the 
largest undeveloped copper deposits in the 
world. This is our second major investment in 
Peru where the feasibility study for the 
Quellaveco copper deposit in the south of the 
country is at an advanced stage. 
In July, we acquired a 50% stake in the 
Pebble copper project in Alaska for a staged 
cash investment of $1.4 billion. The key assets 
of the project, which is co-owned by Northern 
Dynasty Minerals, are its open pit Pebble West 
deposit and the deeper and higher grade Pebble 
East deposit. The Pebble resources rank among 
“ In 2007, we made 
considerable progress  
towards achieving our aim  
of becoming a significant 
player in the global 
seaborne iron ore trade”
Below: Round-the-clock operations at 
Kumba’s Sishen open pit, which yielded 
about 30 million tonnes of iron ore in 2007  
About
Anglo
American
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 09
Outlook
The global economic outlook for 2008 is clouded 
by uncertainty. While it seems clear that US 
economic activity will be weaker in 2008 than 
in recent years, it is less clear how economic 
growth will be affected in the rest of the world, 
especially in those emerging markets whose 
growth has been largely responsible for the strong 
demand that has underpinned commodity prices. 
In South Africa, electrical power supply 
problems are causing disruption to mining 
operations across the country. At present, it is 
difficult to accurately forecast the medium term 
impact of power shortages on Anglo American’s 
business. We are working with Eskom and  
the South African government to implement 
solutions. 
Global commodity demand remains strong 
and seems likely to remain so throughout 2008. 
Commodity supply worldwide continues to be 
constrained by skills shortages, rising capital 
and operating costs, longer permitting processes 
and strong exchange rates in many of the 
countries where key operations are located. 
Industry inventories are therefore likely to 
remain low and continue to underpin prices. 
The medium to long term secular trend of 
strong commodity demand growth – embracing, 
as it does, the industrialisation and urbanisation 
of developing nations, especially China and 
India – will continue to support prices over  
a longer time horizon.
As a result, significant new mining 
investments will be needed to satisfy that 
demand. Anglo American is well placed to 
benefit from this favourable backdrop as  
the Group continues to realise its exciting 
growth prospects. ■
Cynthia Carroll
Chief executive
	 2 0 0 7 	 h i g h l i g h t s
71 %
	 P a r t i c i p a t i o n 	 r a t e 	 f o r 	 H I V / A I D S 	 V C T	
the world’s most important accumulations of 
copper, gold and molybdenum.
In both Peru and Alaska, a key priority is  
to build supportive relationships with local 
communities, consistent with our policy of 
developing and operating projects to the highest 
standards and to promote truly sustainable 
development.
Close to year end we announced the 
acquisition of a 70% interest, for $620 million, 
in the Foxleigh coal mine in Australia, which 
adjoins our German Creek and Lake Lindsay 
operations.
We are also widening our horizons 
geographically. In an exciting recent development, 
Anglo American and China Development  
Bank have entered into a Memorandum of 
Understanding (MOU). Anglo American is 
actively looking for further projects in China and 
the MOU represents a long term commitment 
from both parties to establish a strategic 
relationship to identify and develop a pipeline of 
mining projects in China, Africa and elsewhere.
Driving operational excellence
The mining industry continues to experience 
significant cost pressures across the supply 
chain, including freight, transportation, fuel and 
consumables. In spite of the cost pressures, we 
achieved $380 million in cost savings, synergies, 
efficiencies and procurement, and we managed 
to contain our growth in cash costs to 4%  
above inflation.
Above and beyond these cost-saving 
activities, we are bringing greater rigour to our 
operating platform by introducing a value based 
management (VBM) methodology across all our 
businesses. A pilot project has been completed 
in Anglo Coal and we are now rolling VBM out 
into the other businesses. In addition, an asset 
optimisation initiative will maximise operational 
efficiencies at site level and allow us to benchmark 
our performance and spread best practices.
We have carried out a comprehensive 
review to define the best approach for delivering 
key business support functions and, as a result, 
we have decided to establish three shared 
services centres providing common accounting 
and employee services, located in existing 
offices in Asia Pacific, Latin America and South 
Africa. We have also launched a centralised 
procurement programme to maximise the benefits 
of being a global operator. Initial projections 
indicate that we shall achieve $1 billion worth  
of procurement and shared services savings  
in the next three years.
Sustainable development
I am proud to say that we continue to be a 
sector leader in terms of our approach to 
sustainable development. We are seeking  
to play our part in addressing the challenges  
of climate change by improving our energy 
efficiency, reducing our greenhouse gas 
emissions, contributing to the development  
of clean coal technologies and through our 
involvement in public-policy discussions. 
Our internationally recognised  
Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox (SEAT) 
continues to help us understand the 
perspectives and concerns of the communities 
close to our operations. This year we have made 
a three-yearly SEAT assessment mandatory for 
all our major operations. 
We are gaining ground in the fight against 
HIV and AIDS with our successful voluntary 
counselling and testing (VCT) and treatment 
programme. At a number of our collieries in South 
Africa, the VCT participation rate exceeds 90%, 
while the overall Group figure continues to climb 
and had reached 71% by the end of 2007. 
Important progress was also made this year in 
developing a new framework of occupational 
health policies called The Anglo Occupational 
Health Way.
In 2007, we were an active voice in the 
development and promotion of the Extractive 
Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), which 
supports improved governance in resource-rich 
countries, representing the mining sector on the 
EITI’s board. 
We were also involved in other multi-
stakeholder initiatives, including the Voluntary 
Principles on Security and Human Rights and 
the Investment Climate Facility for Africa. We 
continue to be involved in and to give our full 
support to the UN Global Compact. We report 
on progress implementing the principles in our 
Report to Society in accordance with the 
externally verified Global Reporting Initiative.
We have made clear our commitment to 
regular engagement with NGOs at a local, 
national and international level. We signed 
association agreements with Fauna and Flora 
International on biodiversity issues and with 
CARE International on development challenges. 
“ In spite of the cost 
pressures, we achieved 
$380 million in cost 
savings, synergies, 
efficiencies and 
procurement”
n e x t 	 s e c t i o n :
How Anglo American’s  
ambition to become the  
leading mining company  
is being realised
