 MALLETT PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
08
12
34
1. A fine architectural six branch epergne of
pagoda form with seven glass baskets, the finial
cast as a classical figure made by Joseph Preedy
of London in 1802.
2. Fig Leaf wardrobe, like the very best design,
The Fig Leaf’s beauty grows; it is a contemporary
masterpiece.
Overview
Mallett is an exceptional brand. It is a
universally recognised and respected name
with an established presence in the two key
centres of activity in the antique and fine art
world – London and New York – and it has a
committed and experienced staff recognised
for their integrity and depth of expertise.
However, it is an underexploited brand which
has significant potential for development
and growth.
Market conditions
Market conditions are changing as clients’
tastes and perceptions change and
competition evolves. New, younger wealth is
entering the market from locations other than
Mallett’s traditional base of the UK and US.
Such new clients are less formal and, whilst
often focussed more on the contemporary
style, see value as a priority. As the global
recession deepens so trust is becoming more
important and the integrity and expertise of
our staff becomes an even greater asset.
Our competitive position is strengthening as
several dealers in the UK have recently exited
the market and we enhance our reputation
and quality of offering among Upper East
Side dealers in New York. Our challenge is to
provide value compared to the auction
houses. This must be achieved through
personal relationships with our clients,
assisting with the ongoing maintenance and
development of their collections and through
meticulous research, provenance and
cataloguing, as well as through price.
Chief Executive’s Report
Business review
3. Abraham-Louis-Rodolphe Ducros
(1748-1810) view of the Temple of the Sibyl
in Tivoli. Oil on canvas, Circa 1785.
4. An early nineteenth century mahogany chaise
longue originating in France Mallett has suffered in 2008 due to the
economic downturn in the latter part of the
year, but I believe that the actions we are
taking will help position it to deliver value
to shareholders when the economic
environment improves.
Giles Hutchinson Smith
Chief Executive
Solid Foundations
Outstanding quality and exceptional details, allied
to our distinctly personal taste, will continue to form
the core of our offering.
Operational review
An operational review of the business was
undertaken during 2008. The initial focus was
the development of a strategy for long term
growth. However, the onset of the global
economic recession, and the impact it had
on our trading in the final quarter of the year,
also required us to develop a short term
strategy to withstand the downturn.
The short term requirement is to establish
an appropriate cost base for the current
business. The significant rent increase on our
Bond Street premises which was agreed in
June 2008 means that we believe the cost
now outweighs the benefit of a location on
Bond Street which has become predominantly
a fashion street. We are therefore seeking to
relocate our London showroom to new
premises in Mayfair which will significantly
reduce our property costs. We have a number
of parties interested in acquiring our Bond
Street lease and have identified several
properties for possible relocation. However, the
property market is weak and we are looking
for very specific requirements in any new
property to ensure the quality and glamour of
Mallett’s showrooms is maintained. Given
this, and the likely refurbishment that will be
needed to any new premises, we do not expect
to have relocated before the end of 2009.
Our New York showroom, which generates
approximately 35% of the Group’s turnover,
continues to be a successful portal for sales.
However, it has been impacted harder than
our London showroom by the global recession
and we are therefore looking to improve its
cost profile through the downturn. Similarly,
our marketing expenditure will be more
focussed, exhibiting only at our most successful
fairs whilst the recession continues.
MALLETT PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
09
And finally, we have re-evaluated our stock
management. The current economic climate
is depressing sales, but it is also creating
and will continue to create some outstanding
buying opportunities. At the year end we
undertook a full external and internal valuation
of our inventory portfolio which resulted in
provisions totalling £3.3m being set against
a number of items of stock. In addition, we
have selected a few items to be included in
an auction at Christies in June to release
capital to take advantage of the buying
opportunities which are likely to materialise
in the second half of the year.
Long term prospects
The Group’s long term development is based
on enhancing the Mallett brand to build our
client base. This will be created through:
• the personal relationships that our sales
team develop with their clients and the
trust they generate through their integrity
and depth of knowledge and expertise;
• a marketing strategy with a simple message
of integrity, authority and style. This will
include our traditional marketing through
fairs and catalogues but will be expanded
to cover targeted PR events and the use of
online channels of communication; and
• our three new subsidiaries, Meta, James
Harvey British Art and Hatfields. All offer a
different, but related, product to the
traditional Mallett offering, thus appealing
to a wider market, but all are associated
with the highest quality and value.
