 7
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Market conditions
The decorative arts market was, as expected, a 
difficult market to operate in during 2009. According to
independent research commissioned by TEFAF , the market
for fine and decorative art fell by 26%, with auction sales
slipping even further, down 32% on 2008. The high point 
of the year came early, when Yves Saint Laurent’s furniture
and furnishings were auctioned in Paris in February,
achieving the highest ever total sale value of furniture sold
at auction. This included the world’s most expensive chair,
Eileen Gray’s “dragon chair”, sold at £19.6m. The changing
nature of the market was highlighted by the announcement
in June that the Grosvenor House Art and Antiques Fair,
the world-renowned fair for English antique furniture, was
closing after 75 years, and the announcement in July that
Partridge Fine Art, a direct competitor of Mallett, was
being placed in administration. 
Against this background, Mallett outperformed
expectations, increasing turnover, significantly improving
its cash position and moving to a more stable financial
base from which to trade during these constrained times
and grow when the opportunity arises.
Trading performance
The Group made an operating loss for the year to 31
December 2009 of £1.8m (2008 - £6.0m). This represents a
£4.2m improvement from the previous year and is primarily
the result of £3.0m lower inventory provisions charged this
year compared to the prior year and a decrease of £2.0m
in operating costs this year compared to the prior year,
offset by a reduction in margins. 
Group turnover increased by 15% to £14.0m (2008 -
£12.1m). The US continues to be our largest market 
for sales, with 47% (2008 - 53%) of our sales being to 
US clients. UK clients are our next largest market, at 
29% (2008 - 27%), and clients from Continental Europe
represent 18% (2008 - 16%). Total turnover included the
proceeds of the sale of 59 items at a Christie’s auction 
in July (£0.7m, in line with book value). 
We continued to experience increasing pressure on
margins, due both to market conditions and to a
consciously different approach to stock management. 
We believe that it is essential to reinforce Mallett’s
reputation for excellence in a market that is becoming
more specialised, with purchasers now tending to focus
increasingly on exceptional, individual pieces rather than
on furnishing entire houses from one source. During the
year we therefore accepted many more items on
consignment to sell on behalf of the owner, rather than
purchasing the items ourselves. This has the benefit of
enabling us to offer our clients exceptional pieces of
furniture and objets d’art without having to invest any
further cash. Sales of these items are generally at lower
margins, reflecting the significantly lower risk attributed 
to Mallett from pursuing this strategy. 
Costs
One of our stated aims for 2009 was to establish an
appropriate cost base for the business for the future. 
In pursuit of this objective, we reduced our operating
costs by £2m in the year through a combination of 
minimal additional spend on Meta, reduced marketing
spend and staff reductions. Average staff numbers 
have reduced by 10 employees from the prior year 
to 43 employees (2008 - 53); this included a number 
of redundancies made in the first quarter of the year.
Another of our stated aims for 2009 was to put in place 
a better remuneration structure linked to performance
against expectations. I feel that the successful
implementation of this objective was a key driver 
of performance and I am delighted that we were 
able to pay a small level of bonus to staff as a result. 
We reduced our marketing spend in order to focus 
more closely on the key fairs of the year. Our sales mix
was reflected in our marketing campaign: during the year 
we exhibited at 3 fairs in the US, 1 fair in the UK and 1 in
Continental Europe. We also held specialist exhibitions 
in our showrooms of jewellery, wallpaper and Willy Rizzo
ballet photographs, all of which generated significantly
increased footfall, and we published one catalogue. 
We made a number of improvements to our website,
bearing in mind that, as the speed and quality of images
sent over the internet increases, pre-selection of items 
to view becomes easier and footfall in showrooms
decreases. We plan to continue to align our marketing
spend with market conditions.
We continue to work on improving our cost base in order
to return Mallett to profitability on a sustainable basis. In
line with this strategy and as previously stated, we remain
committed to reducing our rental costs by relocating; we
will take action to do so as soon as the net cash
cost/benefit is acceptable.
Subsidiary businesses
James Harvey British Art had a successful year, increasing
turnover by 27% to £1.6m (2008 - £1.2m) and achieving a
small operating profit (2008 - £0.2m loss). I am pleased to
report that since the year end James Harvey has agreed
to purchase a 40% stake in James Harvey British Art from
Mallett, underlining his commitment to the business and
ensuring that Mallett’s pictures continue to be marketed
by a respected expert in the field of British paintings.
Chief Executive’s Report
Mallett outperformed expectations,
increasing turnover and significantly
improving its cash position. Meta costs were scaled back significantly in 2009, with its
products being sold through the Mallett showrooms and its
marketing included within the Mallett marketing. This has
resulted in an increase in turnover to £0.4m (2008 - £0.3m)
and a small operating profit (2008 - £1.9m loss). Hatfields,
however, had a disappointing year. Third party turnover
remained flat but the level of work from Mallett decreased,
and this led to a small operating profit in 2008 becoming
an operating loss of £0.1m in 2009. Staff numbers have
been reduced and the management structure re-organised
to better reflect the level of work anticipated in 2010 and
hence improve operating performance.
This year, Mallett will be a founder member, with 
four equal partners, of Masterpiece 2010, a new fair 
in London in June that aims to showcase the “best 
of the best” from around the world. 
Balance sheet
Shareholders’ equity at 31 December 2009 was 
£18.6m (2008 - £21.2m). The £2.6m reduction in the 
year represents the loss for the year, adverse exchange 
rate movements and actuarial losses from the Group’s
defined benefit pension scheme.
Inventory value reduced to £12.3m at 31 December 
2009 (2008 - £16.1m). This reflects our focus on cash
management during the year and our expectation 
of lower sales in the year, which meant that we purchased
significantly fewer items than in previous years. Our
strategy of accepting more items on consignment,
however, has maintained the number and quality of items
for sale, and at 31 December 2009 we had approximately
£8m worth of consignment stock items in our showrooms.
This amount is not included in our inventory value as we
do not have any ownership over the items and have no
significant risk attached to the items.
The deficit in the Group’s defined benefit pension
scheme has increased slightly to £1.6m (2008 - £1.5m).
£0.7m of actuarial losses were incurred in the year due to
the worsening market conditions but these were offset by
contributions made in the year. In addition, a number of
members transferred their benefits out of the scheme
during the year which has helped reduce the present
value of the liabilities in the scheme by £2.6m to £5.4m
(2008 - £8.1m). The scheme was closed to future accrual 
in 2008 and we are comfortable that the liability of the
scheme is contained.
Cashflow
Our cash position has improved significantly during the
year to a cash surplus of £0.8m at 31 December 2009
(2008 - £2.3m net debt). The primary driver behind this
improvement of £3.1m was the reduced level of inventory
purchases we made during the year. Due to our improved
cash position we decided not to renew the additional
£1m overdraft facility we obtained from Coutts & Co at
the end of 2008 and have reverted to an overdraft facility
of £2.5m. This was renewed with Coutts & Co in March
2010 for 12 months with a fixed and floating charge over
the Group’s UK assets, which reflects the more cautious
approach of banks to offering lending facilities following
the banking crisis.
Outlook
We are cautious about the prospect of growth in 
2010 as concerns remain about the strength of the
economy in both the UK and the US. Our strategy will
continue to focus on optimising our cost base whilst
carefully targeting our marketing in order to highlight
Mallett’s unique strengths in selecting and offering the
very best 18th and 19th century English and Continental
furniture and objets d’art.
Giles Hutchinson Smith 
Chief Executive
8
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chief Executive’s Report continued
SOLD IN 2009
SIR ALFRED MUNNINGS (1878-1959)
THE WHITE CANOE
Munnings had a strong desire to draw and paint
from an early age and painting mainly in the open
air, his subjects came to embrace horses, ponies,
cattle, local race meetings and country fairs, each
with a sense of light and free handling of paint
which today classes him as an important exponent
of English Impressionism.
