 4
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Against the background of one of the most difficult years for the UK retail sector in
generations, Mallett made strategic and operational progress. We had anticipated
a very tough year. We planned our business on lower sales and focused on cash
management. We reduced our cost base significantly and managed our inventory
more pro-actively to decrease the amount of capital invested in inventory while
retaining the outstanding quality and range that the Mallett brand represents.
Chairman’s Statement
Our operating loss decreased by £4.2m from the prior
year to £1.8m in 2009, and our cash position improved 
by £3.1m, from net debt of £2.3m at the start of the year
to a net cash surplus of £0.8m at the end of the year. 
We said in March 2009 that establishing an appropriate
cost base was a strategic priority, and we made good
progress towards achieving this aim by reducing our
operating costs by £2m in the year. We are as yet 
only part of the way through the task of re-engineering
Mallett’s business model in order to align its proposition
and organisational structure with the demands of a
rapidly evolving marketplace. We are committed to
pursuing this process during 2010.
Our balance sheet remains strong with net assets of
£18.6m. Our inventory level reduced from £16.1m at 
the start of the year to £12.3m at the end of the year.
However, we are now accepting many more items on
consignment to sell on behalf of the owner, rather than
purchasing the item ourselves. At the end of the year we
had approximately £8m of items in our showrooms which
we are selling on consignment. This strategy has been
very successful in maintaining a freshness and high
quality to our stock whilst at the same time reducing
capital investment.
Whilst we successfully stabilised the business after 
the sharp decline in sales and market confidence in 
the last quarter of 2008, we recognise that 2009 was 
still a loss-making year and further progress needs to 
be made. The Board did not declare an interim dividend
for 2009 and it is not recommending a final dividend for
the year. We are, however, committed to returning to
paying a dividend once it is financially prudent to do so.
We are cautious about expecting any significant growth
in 2010. The collapse of confidence in the banking sector
at the end of 2008 made our clients a great deal more
cautious in their spending and the pace at which that
confidence can be rebuilt remains uncertain. We will
continue to focus on costs and cash management whilst
reinforcing our reputation for having the finest 18th and
19th century English and Continental furniture and objets
d’art through selected marketing and well-chosen items
of stock, both purchased and taken on consignment.
Lord Daresbury
Chairman 5
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
THE WARRENGHEIM CHANDELIER
An extremely rare Louis XIV ormolu eight-light chandelier
attributed to André-Charles Boulle, royal cabinet maker and
sculptor to King Louis XIV of France and one of the most
celebrated craftsmen of late 17th century Europe. This
magnificent chandelier is designed in the Louis XIV ‘antique’
manner, with its caryatids of the huntress Diana and busts
of Pan along with its acanthus wrapped baluster vase stem.
Several distinguishing features of this chandelier can also be
found in other chandeliers attributed to Boulle in important
museum, noble and private collections.
France, circa 1680
NEW STOCK 6
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
SOLD IN 2009
ADAM PERIOD MARQUETRY COMMODE
This commode, in satinwood crossbanded in
tulipwood, was almost certainly made by the
London cabinet makers John Mayhew and
William Ince who ranked the King and the 4th
Duke of Marlborough among their distinguished
aristocratic clients. The decoration on this
cabinet relates to Mayhew and Ince’s marquetry
style in the 1770s and 1780s. The illusion of
depth is created by delicate surface pen work
engraving on the exotic inlaid woods that
contrasts against the pale satinwood ground.
England, circa 1770
