 Chairman’s Statement
As expected, the trading environment for antique furniture showed little
improvement in 2010. We have, therefore, continued our policy of tight cost
control, pro-active inventory management and cash focus, which has led to 
an encouraging 30% reduction in our operating losses and a small net debt
funding position at the year end.
Our operating loss decreased by £0.6m from the prior
year to £1.3m in 2010 on a small reduction in turnover
to £13.3m. This was the product of further reductions
in our operating costs, continuing the process started
at the beginning of 2009 of re-aligning our cost base
with the evolving marketplace for antique furniture
and objets d’art. The majority of the savings in 2010
related to staff costs. Property costs remain the last
significant cost to be re-aligned and this will happen
when appropriate value for our lease on the Bond
Street showroom is achieved.
Our balance sheet remains strong with net assets 
of £15.0m. We looked to maintain our inventory 
level at a similar level to the prior year following 
two years of significant reductions. Reducing our
capital invested in stock and replacing such stock 
with stock on consignment has been an integral part
of our successful tight cash management policy.
However, greater flexibility in marketing to achieve
greatest profit is available with owned items of stock
and hence we are keen to maintain a strong level of
owned stock which will be one of the key drivers 
to returning the Group to profitability.
We are delighted to have been one of the founding
members that created the Masterpiece Fair in London
in June 2010. The fair was extremely well received by
exhibitors and visitors and the success of the 2010 
fair is shown by the increase in applicants for the 2011
fair which is now expected to have over 30% more
exhibitors. The fair was loss-making in 2010, as 
was expected in the first year of operations, but 
the operating experience gained, together with 
the increase in the size of the fair, is expected to 
turn this around in 2011.
Thomas Woodham-Smith has played a major part 
in setting up the Masterpiece Fair and creating this
exciting new business. At the end of 2010 he resigned
from Mallett and stepped down from the Board in
order to concentrate more fully on the Masterpiece
project. I would like to thank Thomas for his enormous
contribution to the Company over 25 years. I am also
pleased that he will continue as a consultant to Mallett
in the purchase of continental and 20th century
furniture which is his particular sphere of expertise.
Whilst the company is loss-making, the Board do 
not feel it is financially prudent for the company 
to pay a dividend. The Board did not declare an
interim dividend for 2010 and it is not recommending
a final dividend for the year.
Lord Daresbury
Chairman
5
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
