 6
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Mallett enjoyed a similar trading experience during
the year. It was a quiet year of trading interspersed
with a few high value sales of exceptional pieces,
including two sales over £1m. This confirms my
comment from last year that purchasers are now
tending to focus on single exceptional, individual
pieces and reinforces our inventory strategy of taking
in exceptional, high value pieces on consignment.
Trading performance
The Group made an operating loss for the year 
to 31 December 2010 of £1.3m (2009: £1.8m). This
represents a 30% improvement from the previous 
year and is primarily the result of further reductions 
in operating costs. 
There was a 5% reduction in Group turnover to
£13.3m (2009: £14.0m). 2009 included £0.7m from 
the proceeds of a sale of 59 items in an auction at
Christies, which was not repeated in 2010. Excluding
this one-off event from 2009 results in flat turnover
year on year. The US and UK continue to be our
largest markets for sales, with 39% (2009: 47%) 
and 33% (2009: 29%) of our sales being into those
countries respectively. The majority of the rest of our
sales are to Continental Europe, but we are seeing
more visitors to our showrooms from the emerging
markets and we hope that this will translate into
increased sales into those regions in the future.
Our marketing strategy continues to focus on
exhibiting at fairs and the distribution of our
catalogues, as well as maintaining appealing and
eclectic displays of all our pieces throughout the 
year in our showrooms in Bond Street, London 
and Madison Avenue, New York.
We believe the major art and antiques fairs around 
the world represent the best and most effective form
of targeted marketing with up to 30,000 visitors
attending a fair over the course of a week. In 2010 we
exhibited at four fairs – the American International
Fine Art Fair in Palm Beach in February; the European
Fine Art Fair in Maastricht in March; the Masterpiece
Fair in London in June; and the International Fine 
Art and Antique Dealers Fair in New York in October.
We made sales at all these fairs, but the exposure to 
a large audience focusing on art and antiques is as
important in order to maintain the visibility of our
brand as exhibiting the finest antique furniture and
objets d’art in the world.
We also sent out two catalogues in the year, in the
Spring and Autumn, displaying over 200 items and 
had four exhibitions of specific artists or specific
themes in our showrooms covering watercolours,
drawings, jewellery and tribal art.
Subsidiaries and associates
James Harvey British Art Limited (“JHBA”) had
another active and profitable year. Although turnover
fell to £1.1m (2009: £1.6m), operating profit was
maintained at a similar level to 2009. JHBA held five
exhibitions of specific artists in its gallery in Chelsea
during the year, and also exhibited at the Masterpiece
Chief Executive’s Report
Purchasers are tending to focus 
on exceptional, individual pieces
reinforcing our inventory strategy
of taking in exceptional, high value
pieces on consignment
The global art market proved to be strong in 2010 with Christie’s recording its highest
annual sales total in its history and Sotheby’s recording significant improvements on
2009. However, the main focus of collectors remains on Impressionist and Modern 
Art and on Contemporary Art. The interest in antique furniture and the decorative 
arts remained low, although one highlight was the highest price ever achieved at
auction for the sale of a piece of English antique furniture – a George III commode,
attributed to Thomas Chippendale, for £3.8m. 7
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
SOLD IN 2010
A MAGNIFICENT PAIR OF LOUIS XV GILT BRONZE
WALL LIGHTS ATTRIBUTED TO JACQUES CAFFIERI 
These fabulous wall-lights are originally from the Casa
Reale Colorno, the summer palace of the Dukes of Parma.
As part of a set of four, they decorated a grand salon at
the centre of which hung a chandelier which corresponds
to one of the two in the Wallace Collection.
France, circa 1752 8
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NEW STOCK
A PAIR OF LOUIS XV PAINTED COMMODES
A pair of Louis XV bombe vernis martin single door
commodes decorated on a white ground with coral
floral vignettes framed by interlocking scrolls and
retaining their original breche violette tops. They
are in the manner of Gilles Joubert, a Parisian
ébéniste who worked for the Garde-Meuble of Louis
XV for two and a half decades, earning the title of
ébéniste du roi ("royal cabinet-maker") in 1763. 
France, circa 1760 9
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Chief Executive’s Report continued
The new premises will still showcase Mallett as the finest antique
dealer in London but with a more exclusive approach 
Fair. At the start of the year Mallett sold a 40% stake in
JHBA to James Harvey, with the sale of up to a further
10% dependent on JHBA profits in 2010 and 2011, for
a total consideration of £54,000. This did not include
any picture stock which was all owned by Mallett. The
majority of this stock is now consigned to JHBA to sell
on Mallett’s behalf. During the year JHBA purchased
some pictures from the revenues it had generated 
in the year and it will look to strengthen its balance 
sheet in this way going forward. 
I am pleased to report that Hatfields returned to
profitability in 2010. Turnover increased by 19% to
£1.0m (2009: £0.8m) with, most encouragingly, all 
of the increase attributable to third party sales.
Management has looked to reduce its fixed staff cost
during the year and rely on a core of high quality full
time craftsmen supplemented by freelance craftsmen
as and when business dictates. Now the Hatfields
business has been stabilised, we can look to grow 
the business as opportunities in the market appear.
Meta costs were scaled back significantly in 2009, 
with its products being sold through the Mallett
showrooms and its marketing included within the
Mallett marketing. In 2010 it attended the
Masterpiece Fair where it launched a new product 
– Carina, a very elegant Carrara marble dining table.
Otherwise, costs were kept to a minimum which has
allowed it to make a small profit in 2010 on a low level
of sales.
In June 2010 Masterpiece London Limited, of 
which Mallett is a founding member, put on the first
Masterpiece Fair in London. The fair was extremely
well received by exhibitors and visitors, with over
18,000 visitors to the fair over six days viewing
products from 116 exhibitors ranging from classic cars
to contemporary art to watches to antique furniture.
Mallett has, to date, injected £150,000 into the venture
but it is not expected that Masterpiece London will
require any further funding.
On 23 December 2010 one of the five founding
shareholders, Asprey Holdings Limited, sold its 20%
stake in Masterpiece London Limited to the other four
shareholders equally, for £5,000. Therefore, Mallett
acquired a 5% shareholding from Asprey Holding
Limited for £1,250, increasing its shareholding
Masterpiece London Limited to 25%.
Costs
Following the severe economic downturn at the 
end of 2008, we stated that we would re-look at all 
our costs to establish an appropriate cost base for 
the business for the future. In 2009 we reduced 
our operating costs by £2.0m and in 2010 we have
continued this process by reducing operating 
costs by a further £0.6m. It is encouraging that 
our turnover has remained relatively constant
throughout this overhaul.
The majority of the cost savings in 2010 have been 
to staff costs. Average staff numbers have reduced 
by seven employees, including four at Hatfields, 
and have generated costs savings of £0.5m. 
In addition, our annual assessment of the carrying
value of our non-current assets has concluded that 
the carrying values are reasonable, whilst the same
exercise in 2009 led to an impairment of the value 
of our freehold property in Clapham by £0.2m which
was charged to the Income Statement in 2009. 
Against these savings, the costs of exhibiting at the
four fairs we attended in 2010 increased. As well as 
an increase in shipping costs, we spent more on the
presentation of our stands at all the fairs in order to
increase our visibility and showcase the brand to
maximum effect in the current marketplace.
The remaining significant cost to be re-aligned is our
property cost. We remain committed to reducing our
rental cost by relocating our showroom in London but 10
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Chief Executive’s Report continued
we will only do this when we can realise appropriate
value for the lease on our current premises. We are
now solely a destination business with almost none 
of the casual footfall that created sales from the 
earlier business model which was dependent on a 
high profile retail presence. The new premises will 
still showcase Mallett as the finest antique dealer in
London but with a more exclusive approach. There 
has been an encouraging increase in interest in large
Bond Street premises in recent months and it is hoped
this will enable us to realise the value of our lease
during the course of the year.
Balance sheet
Shareholders’ equity at 31 December 2010 was
£15.0m (2009: £18.6m). The £3.6m reduction in the
year represents the loss for the year, actuarial losses
from the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme 
and a write-off of the deferred tax asset in respect 
of the actuarial losses, offset by favourable exchange
rate movements. The loss for the year includes a 
tax charge of £1.2m in respect of a write-off of the
deferred tax asset relating to unutilised tax losses 
and the costs of the Group’s defined benefit pension
scheme. The directors have decided to no longer
carry forward a deferred tax asset due to the uncertain
nature of the antique furniture and decorative art
market and the timing of its recovery.
Inventory value has reduced slightly to £12.1m 
at 31 December 2010 (2009: £12.3m). We have
reduced the amount of capital invested in our
inventory significantly since 2007 and successfully
supplemented it with consignment stock in order 
to maintain the level, range and quality of stock 
for which Mallett is renowned. Ownership of the 
item does, however, allow much greater flexibility 
in marketing the piece for greatest profit and we are
aware it is the most important area in which the Group
must invest, as cash dictates, in order to drive Mallett
back to profitability and growth.
Cashflow
Our cash position has worsened during the year to a
net debt of £0.7m at 31 December 2010 (2009: £0.8m
cash surplus). The negative cash movement reflects
the operating loss for the year as we have looked to
maintain the group’s inventory level at a similar level
to the previous year. We have renewed our £2.5m
overdraft limit with Coutts & Co and we remain very
focused on cash management to ensure we have
resources available when good buying opportunities
materialise.
Outlook
We remain cautious about the prospect of growth,
although we do sense a greater level of energy in the
market and more interest being shown by clients than
this time last year. We will continue to focus on our
core markets in the UK and US but we are also very
aware of the growing number of collectors in the
emerging markets and will look at opportunities to
access these markets and increase the awareness of
Mallett in them.
Giles Hutchinson Smith 
Chief Executive
