 2
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Mallett at a Glance
One of the world’s pre-eminent antiques houses,
specialising in English and Continental furniture and
objects from the 18th century and Regency periods.
Private collectors as well as many of the world’s great
museums, from the Victoria and Albert Museum in
London to the Metropolitan Museum in New York,
look to Mallett for exemplary pieces that represent 
an object’s design, execution and pedigree.
Contemporary objects and furniture, designed 
in the 21st century but crafted with exquisite materials
and master craftsmanship from the 18th century. 
The designers include Asymptote, Edward Barber 
and Jay Osgerby, Tord Boontje, Matali Crasset and
Wales & Wales. 
British Art from the 17th century to the present day
with an emphasis on less established names of the
18th and 19th centuries. The gallery also promotes
traditional figurative contemporary art, thus displaying
an eclectic mix of paintings that are united through
their British origin and quality.
One of the world’s longest established restorers of
furniture and works of art. With a reputation for skilled
workmanship restoring and conserving furniture and
works of art for Royal, private and museum collections
throughout the world, the business is now based in a
fine 18th century building in Clapham, London, from
where its highly experienced and skilled craftsmen
restore a wide range of items from the decorative arts.
Set up in 2009 to create and organise a new antiques
fair in London for exhibitors to display the best of the
best from a wide spectrum of art and design. From
Bugattis to bronzes, Picasso to pink diamonds, the 
fair is a forum for distinctive design and aesthetic
excellence where every exhibit is of superb quality. 3
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NEW STOCK
THE ‘CARINA’ DINING TABLE
Designed by Klauser & Carpenter and constructed
from three pieces of interlocking Carrara marble, 
the table blends the fluid aesthetic of maritime
architecture with the sculptural purity of classic
Carrara marble. The alliance between the designers'
eye, Meta's knowledge of furniture and Kienesberger's
experience of marble, gives Carina the strongest yet
the lightest marble structure possible.
English, 2010 4
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
SOLD IN 2010
REGENCY MAHOGANY PATENT DRUM TABLE
The centre of the table is inlaid with ebony anthemia
and reveals a rising satinwood cylindrical secret drawer
section with four drawers on each side with a diamond
of mahogany bordered in satinwood separating the
drawer sections. This particular design is very rare, the
sprung mechanism that holds the central drawers has
few precedents on a table of this size. 
England, circa 1810
