 Mallett plc    ANNuAL REPoRt ANd AccouNtS 2011
2
Mallett at a Glance
one of the world’s pre-eminent antiques houses,
specialising in English and continental furniture and
objects from the 18th century and Regency periods.
Private collectors as well as many of the world’s great
museums, from the Victoria and Albert Museum in
London to the Metropolitan Museum in New York,
look to Mallett for exemplary pieces that represent 
an object’s design, execution and pedigree.
British art from the 17th century to the present day
with an emphasis on less established names of the
18th and 19th centuries. the gallery also promotes
traditional figurative contemporary art, thus
displaying an eclectic mix of paintings that are 
united through their British origin and quality. ANNuAL REPoRt ANd AccouNtS 2011    Mallett plc
3
contemporary objects and furniture,
designed in the 21st century but
crafted with exquisite materials and
master craftsmanship from the 18th
century. the designers include
Asymptote, Edward Barber and Jay
osgerby, tord Boontje, Matali crasset
and Wales & Wales. 
one of the world’s longest established
restorers of furniture and works of 
art with a reputation for skilled
workmanship restoring and conserving
furniture and works of art for Royal,
private and museum collections
throughout the world.
Set up in 2009 to create and organise 
a new antiques fair in London for
exhibitors to display the best of the
best from a wide spectrum of art and
design. From Bugattis to bronzes,
Picasso to pink diamonds, the fair 
is a forum for distinctive design and
aesthetic excellence where every
exhibit is of superb quality.
Being formerly in the
collection of the Earls of
Rosebery at Mentmore
Towers, Buckinghamshire
places this magnificent pair of
Piedmontese carved giltwood
side tables in a collection that
is said to have been one of
the finest ever assembled in
private hands; comparable to
the collections of the Russian
and British Royal Families.
The work of Bonzanigo has
been compared to that of 
an ivory carver and the floral
swags on these tables have
affinities with those on the
carved giltwood fire screen
that Bonzanigo made in 
Turin for the King of Sardinia
in 1775. 
Italy, circa 1780
FoR Sale
A PAIR OF SIDE 
TABLES IN THE 
MANNER OF GUISEPPE
MARIA BONZANIGO Mallett plc    ANNuAL REPoRt ANd AccouNtS 2011
4
The magnificent interiors at Ely House retain
much of their original stucco work and provide
the type of setting that much of our furniture
and objects were originally created for.
