 Mallett plc    ANNuAL REPoRt ANd AccouNtS 2011
6
After twenty-five years of the European Fine Art Fair in Maastricht
(tEFAF), it seems appropriate to observe some of the changes that
have taken place since the economic crisis unfolded back in 2008.
the global art market has proven remarkably resilient compared to
the stresses and strains of other markets. After a nervous 2009 the
art market in general has grown 7% year on year with 2011 valuing
the global market at €46.1 billion. this has been fuelled by the
meteoric rise in the number of wealthy chinese. china overtook the
uS as the leading art and antiques market in 2011 with a 30% share
of both auction and gallery sales primarily in traditional collecting.  
our stand at tEFAF was well received by our traditional client base which resulted in
a number of sales including a unique pair of 18th century globes and was also visited
by collectors from Asia resulting in the sale of a rare solid ivory chair to a new client
from the Far East. 
the growth of the internet has increased access to the market for both buyers 
and sellers and made it less elitist. the event experience and internet access 
has changed the gallery business model with a number of dealers closing retail
spaces in light of rising property rents and relying on fairs and websites. others 
are investing in galleries to take advantage of the thinning out of competition. 
At the top end of the market where Mallett operates, I believe it is essential 
to maintain a top quality showroom environment in which to showcase the
magnificent pieces in which Mallett specialises. We are confident that securing 
a glamorous setting for Mallett within the leading city in the world for antiques 
on a much reduced cost base, sits well for the future. 
our new London showroom, Ely House, is a Grade 1 listed 18th century townhouse
and the former London palace of the Bishop of Ely, built between 1772 and 1776 by
the renowned architect Robert taylor. the magnificent interiors retain much of their
original stucco work and provide the type of setting for which much of our furniture
and objects were originally created and will enable our stock to be exhibited in the
finest possible environment. I believe its stylish interior represents the future of
private dealing in antiques and art. It is entirely in tune with the Mallett ethos and
manages to be grand but intimate and discreet at the same time. the new space will
provide an entirely new retail experience for our clients. It is located in dover Street,
another prime site in Mayfair close to our previous showroom in New Bond Street, but
our rental cost will be reduced by more than 50% whilst showroom space is increased.
With our cost base now reduced materially and certainty over our location for the
foreseeable future, we have the platform from which to grow the business and
deliver consistent profits in the future.
Chief Executive’s Report
Giles Hutchinson Smith
Chief Executive
LEOPARD CLIMBING OUT 
OF THE TREE
Bronze, Numbered edition of 12,
Signed Hamish Mackie, Dated 2011.
new StocK ANNuAL REPoRt ANd AccouNtS 2011    Mallett plc
7
The magnificent interiors of Ely House, which retain
much of their original stucco work, provide the type 
of setting that much of our furniture and objects were
originally created for and will enable our stock to be
exhibited in the finest possible environment. Mallett plc    ANNuAL REPoRt ANd AccouNtS 2011
8
Chief Executive’s Report continued
trading performance
the first seven months of 2011 showed encouraging signs of an improving
decorative arts market with interest levels much increased and sales growing.
unfortunately, this was not sustained after the summer holidays, most likely due 
to the instability that returned to the global financial market as Italy and Spain 
were drawn into the Eurozone problems which again made clients cautious.
despite this, we can report another significant improvement in our results from the
previous year. With the help of an exceptional profit of £1.3m on the sale of our New
Bond Street lease, the Group achieved a profit before tax of £0.5m (2010: loss of
£1.4m) for the year to 31 december 2011. Excluding the exceptional profit, the loss
before tax of £0.8m represents a 45% improvement from the previous year. Whilst
there has been a small reduction in our operating costs again this year, the principal
reason for the improved results in 2011 is an improvement in our gross margins. 
Our gross profit
increased to £651,000
(2010: £246,000) as
gross margin increased
by 3% reflecting good
buying opportunities
and our focused buying
strategy.
A PAIR OF 18TH CENTURY
BLACK AND GOLD LACQUER
SCREENS
A magnificent pair of late 18th
century Chinese three-fold screens
decorated in black and gold lacquer
of the finest quality, depicting lake
landscapes with rocy outcrops. The
reverse side of each panel is more
simply decorated with flowering
branches birds and other insects.
China circa 1790
Sold in 2011 ANNuAL REPoRt ANd AccouNtS 2011    Mallett plc
9
there was a 5% reduction in Group turnover to £12.7m (2010: £13.3m). 2010
included two sales of over £1m and, whilst there were a number of high value 
items sold in 2011, none reached those levels. our uS showroom had a significantly
quieter year in 2011 than previous years and the proportion of our total sales
accounted for by uS clients dropped from 39% to 34%. this reflects the cautious
mood in the uS and there was a perceptible shift towards interest in our more
modern items by our New York clients, which are generally less expensive. Sales 
into areas other than our core markets of Europe and the uS increased by 75% 
and this included a small number of sales into Hong Kong. We are beginning to
target the Far East as an area of growth and this is an encouraging start to our 
new marketing initiative in that area.
Whilst turnover dropped, our gross profit increased to £651,000 (2010: £246,000) 
as gross margin increased by 3%. this reflects good buying opportunities available,
in particular over the last three years, and our focused buying strategy, working
within the cash resources available, has managed to seek out and take advantage
of many of those opportunities. the net cash released by the move to Ely House
and the substantial reduction in our future rent costs should increase the cash
resources available to take advantage of more of these opportunities as they arise. 
the use of consignment stock in a period of limited cash resources has been 
a very effective way of maintaining our stock levels and we will continue to use 
this approach to preserve the freshness in our stock and attracting high value,
exceptional quality pieces to Mallett. However, the greatest profit is achieved from
owned stock that is purchased well and now, with a more sustainable cost structure
and a platform of Ely House to showcase the items, we will look at more ways to
unlock cash to invest in these opportunities. 
our marketing strategy continues to focus on exhibiting at fairs and the distribution 
of our catalogues. We exhibited at the same four fairs as in 2010 – at Palm Beach in
February; Maastricht in March; the Masterpiece Fair in London in June; and in New
York in october. In addition, in 2011 for the first time we exhibited at the Fine Art
Asia fair in Hong Kong in october. It was successful in raising the profile of Mallett
and making new contacts as well as useful in gaining a better understanding of the
tastes and culture in that area. We have subsequently hired a consultant, based in
Hong Kong, who will assist us during 2012 in our marketing into china and Hong
Kong, including providing market information and analysis, and setting up visits 
for our staff to a number of chinese cities.
We are also targeting other international markets as we develop a more multi-
lingual sales team which now includes Portuguese, Spanish, French and Italian
speakers, as well as Mandarin and cantonese from our consultant in Hong Kong. 
A number of successful trips have been made to Brazil and the model of those 
trips needs to be replicated to other destinations. 
We exhibited at Palm
Beach in February,
Maastricht in March, 
the Masterpiece Fair 
in London in June, and 
in New York in October. 
In addition, in 2011 
for the first time we
exhibited at the Fine 
Art Asia fair in Hong
Kong in October.
GIAN PAOLO PANINI 8 A PAIR 
OF ITALIAN LANDSCAPES
Panini was a prolific artist, and the
demand for his productions was great.
His vedute of ancient Rome became 
the hallmark of his style, and were 
avidly collected by both local patrons
and by visiting milordi from Britain 
and France. This pair of paintings, 
which show exceptionally high quality 
of both architecture and figures and 
are extremely well preserved, were
executed in 1743 for one of his
grandest patrons, the Rispogliosi
family of Roman aristocrats and
patrons of the arts and each is signed 
I P PANINI and dated 1743, one  on 
a stone on the right and the other on
an architectural fragment on the left.
Sold in 2011 Mallett plc    ANNuAL REPoRt ANd AccouNtS 2011
10
Subsidiaries and associates
James Harvey British Art Limited (“ JHBA”) had a very successful year more than
doubling both its turnover and profit. JHBA continues to grow in stature within 
the art market and is handling more high quality paintings, including in 2011 
an exceptional pair of Italian landscapes by Gian Paolo Panini dated 1743. the
profitability JHBA has generated over the last two years has earned James Harvey,
who runs JHBA with the support of Mallett, a further 10% equity interest in JHBA,
as agreed as part of the initial sale of 40% in JHBA to James Harvey in 2010. 
the 10% equity transfer is effective from 1 January 2012, at which point Mallett’s
interest in JHBA reduces to 50%. there are no commitments or current plans to
transfer any further shares in JHBA.
Hatfields increased its third party revenue by 5%, but the restoration work given 
to it by Mallett and its other shareholder, Gurr Johns Limited, reduced significantly
resulting in a small operating loss overall. Hatfields continues to provide a vital
service to Mallett in ensuring Mallett’s pieces are restored and maintained to the
highest quality. However, it needs to create a more sustainable platform that is less
reliant on shareholder business and we continue to look at ways to produce this. 
We also have capital invested in the premises that Hatfields uses and this is an area
where further cash can be unlocked as and when appropriate value can be obtained.
An encouraging number of Meta pieces were sold in 2011 and we have now sold
nine of the eleven design pieces at least once. the Meta brand remains strong and
it was pleasing to see that Barber osgerby, the design team that designed two of
the original Meta pieces, was selected to design the olympic torch for the London
olympics. We continue to look at new designs of items that would fit with the Meta
brand and we expect to launch at least one new product in 2012.
Masterpiece London Limited put on its second fair at the end of June at the Royal
Hospital, London. there were 152 exhibitors at the fair and 28,000 visitors over its six
days which represent a 29% and 58% increase respectively on the previous year’s fair.
In addition, £450,000 was raised for the charity clic Sargent through a Midsummer
party during the fair. We are very pleased that the fair became profitable in only its
second year of trading and Mallett’s share of that profit was £86,000. the majority of
the cash injected into the company by the shareholders in equal proportions during
the set up and first year of trading has already been repaid. the reaction to the fair
was again very favourable and we expect it will be a similar size in 2012.
costs
operating costs continue to be a focus of management and whilst the majority 
of the available cost savings have been made in the previous two years, operating
costs still fell again in 2011 by £0.1m. this was mainly attributable to the departure
of thomas Woodham-Smith at the end of 2010. In the current trading environment,
management continues to be mindful of the need for cost constraint but without
restricting the business too far in growing its sales and profits. there has been no
further reduction in staff numbers and our marketing spend was maintained at a
similar level to 2010.
the 15 year lease we have agreed on Ely House is at an initial annual rent of
£550,000, a reduction of £650,000 relative to 141 New Bond Street. A small section
of Ely House has been sub-let to Masterpiece London Limited and there have
Chief Executive’s Report continued
Mallett plc    ANNuAL REPoRt ANd AccouNtS 2011
A COALBROOKDALE CAST
IRON HALL STAND
A rare and large scale Coalbrookdale
hat and stick stand in polished steel
decorated in the Renaissance style
with elaborate geometric foliate 
and interwoven ornament.
England, circa 1880
new StocK ANNuAL REPoRt ANd AccouNtS 2011    Mallett plc
11
already been enquiries about hiring space for evening events and short exhibitions.
None of these must distract the focus of Ely House from being the showcase for our
furniture and works of art, but used judiciously such events can mitigate our rental
cost further and introduce Mallett to more prospective clients.
Stock
Inventory value has increased slightly to £12.3m at 31 december 2011 (2010:
£12.1m) as we have looked to maintain our inventory level in the knowledge that
greatest profit is achieved from owned stock that has been purchased well. A full
independent valuation of our inventory was undertaken at the year end, as an
update to the independent valuation that was undertaken three years ago. this
resulted in a net write back of previously made provisions of £0.3m and a total
valuation significantly in excess of the inventory value held in the balance sheet. 
In addition, we continue to take more items on consignment, the total cost of which
now exceeds £13m, and this has allowed us to exhibit some exceptional pieces.
Mallett has long been renowned for exhibiting the finest pieces of furniture from the
18th century and Regency period and it is a testament to the Mallett brand that we
continue to be offered such pieces and we continue to have success in selling them.
this continues with the sale, concluded in February 2012, of the chandos chairs, a
historic pair of George I armchairs with outstanding provenance which are amongst
the finest pieces of English furniture ever made.
the scale and grandeur of the Ely House rooms and hallways is ideally suited to
exhibiting such exceptional pieces and should ensure that more items are offered 
to us. they also give much more scope for exhibiting a wider range of items. In the
past Mallett has sold other outstanding pieces of art such as paintings by turner,
Monet and Lowry, exceptional needlework, carpets and sculpture. We will use the
Ely House setting to attract a broader range of stock to ensure that the eclectic
range of high quality works of art that is unique to Mallett will attract as many of 
the high-end collectors from around the world as possible.
A SET OF FOUR IVORY
CHARPOY AS A STOOL
A set of four mid 18th century 
turned ivory charpoy of rich colour,
with carved paterae atop mughal
arched pavilions on bulbous, tapering
supports. Now mounted as a stool.
India, circa 1740
Sold in 2011 Mallett plc    ANNuAL REPoRt ANd AccouNtS 2011
12
Balance Sheet and cashflow
Shareholders’ equity at 31 december 2011 was £15.4m (2010: £15.0m). the £0.4m
increase in the year represents the profit for the year offset by actuarial losses from
the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme.
the latest tri-annual actuarial valuation of Mallett’s defined benefit pension scheme
as at 31 May 2010 was finalised during 2011. the pension deficit had increased since
the previous valuation as at 31 May 2007, primarily due to poor investment returns
over the period. the company reached agreement with the trustees to maintain the
deficit contributions at £284,000 per year, but for this to be paid over a longer period
of nine years.
Net debt at 31 december 2011 was £1.1m (2010: £0.7m). the sale of the New Bond
Street lease completed in February 2012 and so the cash from the premium was
received after the year end. We have renewed our £2.5m overdraft limit with coutts
& co and we continue to target cash neutrality in the medium term.
outlook and Strategy
Whilst there is instability in the financial markets, it is likely that our clients will
remain cautious. However, as proved by the first part of 2011, stability generates
greater confidence and as and when this is achieved in the financial markets, so
interest in our products should grow. coupled with this, the excitement of our new
premises at Ely House should also generate interest. 
Since 2008 we have reduced the company’s fixed cost base substantially, creating 
a strong platform for future growth. We are now focused on a strategy to achieve 
this growth in a market for antiques and fine art which has evolved substantially
over the last decade in terms of the geographic spread of collectors, their tastes 
in antiques and fine art and the sales channels through which they are reached.
the majority of the global market for antiques and fine art remains centred around
the two hubs of London and New York where Mallett is based. However, we want 
to expand our reach internationally, particularly to the growing economies in the 
Far East and South America and we believe this can be achieved cost-effectively
through our presence at key fairs, direct relationships with collectors and online.
We want to grow our inventory with focused buying on good opportunities to
increase our margins and expand our product range to attract the broadest range 
of collector. Ely House provides the ideal location from which to achieve this while
enhancing Mallett’s status as the pre-eminent dealer in English antique furniture
and decorative arts.
We recognise this all requires investment and we will be exploring ways to generate
that investment so that we can deliver consistent profit growth into the future.
Giles Hutchinson Smith 
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s Report continued
As proved by the first
part of 2011, stability
generates greater
confidence and as and
when this is achieved 
in the financial markets,
so interest in our
products should grow.
