 ANNuAL REPoRt ANd AccouNtS 2011    Mallett plc
5
Chairman’s Statement
2011 marks the end of an era for Mallett as we ended our 102 year
association with Bond Street and decided to move our London
showroom to a magnificent 18th century townhouse, Ely House 
in dover Street.
our results for 2011 show another improvement on the previous year with a profit
before tax for the year to 31 december 2011 of £0.5m (2010: loss of £1.4m). this
includes an exceptional profit of £1.3m on the assignment of our lease on 141 New
Bond Street. Excluding this exceptional profit, our loss before tax for the year of
£0.8m still represents a 45% improvement from the previous year.
Following the global financial market collapse in 2008, we recognised that our 
cost base was too high for the trading environment that was going to exist for 
the foreseeable future and we put in place a strategy to reduce that cost base
significantly. central to that strategy was reducing the rent on our London
showroom. We recognised that Bond Street had become a fashion street and no
longer provided us with the benefits of such a location for the rental cost we were
paying. However, we were clear that we would only move off Bond Street when 
we were able to achieve appropriate value for the lease on the New Bond Street
premises and find the right venue to showcase Mallett’s furniture and objets d’art 
for many years to come. We are very pleased with the premium of £1.7m that Fendi
agreed to pay us in order to take over our lease on 141 New Bond Street and we are
even more pleased with our new premises at Ely House which opened for business
at the end of February 2012. 
Ely House marks the start of a new era for Mallett and whilst we continue to be 
very conscious of cost control, we now have a strategy to grow the business which
will be centred around improving our margins, expanding our product range and
entering new geographical markets. the Board has concluded that cash resources
should be re-invested into the business at this stage to ensure the company is on 
a sound platform to deliver consistent profits in the future. therefore the Board did
not declare an interim dividend for 2011 and it is not recommending a final dividend 
for the year.
lord daresbury
Chairman
ely House marks the start of a new
era for Mallett 
We now have a strategy 
to grow the business
which will be centred
around improving our
margins, expanding 
our product range 
and entering new
geographical markets
Lord Daresbury Chairman
