 08
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2014
Chairman’s statement
Kurt Salmon and Alexander 
Proudfoot are long established 
and successful consulting 
businesses with a superb 
portfolio of clients and highly 

of MCG will continue to focus 



Alan Barber Chairman
 We have invested in and taken action 
to restore growth and proﬁtability in 
Alexander Proudfoot 
 Kurt Salmon has performed well in 
North America and other geographies, 
despite continued weakness in France
 We have reduced our net indebtedness 
further in the year to £33.6m at the 
year end
 The Board is proposing to maintain 
the dividend for the full year at 0.825p 
per share
Highlights
The Group’s performance in 2014 was badly 
affected hit by the impact of strong currency 
headwinds accounting for the six per cent 
decline in reported revenues. On a local currency 
basis, weaker revenues in Alexander Proudfoot 
were offset by a stronger performance in 
Kurt Salmon. We have invested in and taken 
action to restore growth and proﬁtability in 
Alexander Proudfoot and I am conﬁdent that 
we will begin to see the beneﬁts in 2015. 
Kurt Salmon has performed well in North 
America and other geographies and, despite 
continued macro economic weakness in 
France, it is now well placed to prosper in 
its core markets. 
Some of the signiﬁcant reduction in our 
proﬁtability has been caused by our decision 
to develop and invest in Alexander Proudfoot 
to establish a ﬁrm platform for future proﬁtable 
growth. After a long period during which it has 
been successful and proﬁtable we are investing 
in the business to establish Alexander Proudfoot 
on a clear growth path. In the short term the 
action we have taken has adversely affected 
our 2014 results but we believe that the changes 
we are making will lead to a better performing 
and less volatile business in the future. As 
previously announced in 2015 I will continue to 
support our Group Chief Executive, Nick Stagg, 
in his additional role as Chief Executive of 
Alexander Proudfoot. Proudfoot has a distinctive 
and valuable offering in a crowded consulting 
market and we need to preserve and enhance 
what makes it different and compelling to clients.
Kurt Salmon had a good start to 2014 and 
despite some signs of weakness in the third 
quarter, it delivered a strong performance 
towards the end of the year, which bodes 
well for 2015. In its French business, 
revenues are stable and margins in 2014 
beneﬁted from the management action taken 
in 2013 to adjust resources to lower activity 
levels. We saw positive underlying trends in 
revenue elsewhere in Europe. In North America 
Kurt Salmon delivered an excellent performance 
and our challenge now is to respond to 
improving demand by growing our capacity 
to deliver, which may affect margins in 2015 
as we recruit. Kurt Salmon continues to beneﬁt 
from increasing work in digital transformation 
for clients across all sectors, and it has 
developed a real expertise here which is proving 
to be a competitive advantage.
The Group remains in a good ﬁnancial position. 
Despite weaker proﬁts in 2014 we have 
produced strong operating cash ﬂows and have 
reduced our net indebtedness further in the 
year to £33.6m at the year end. The Board is 
proposing to maintain the dividend for the full 
year at 0.825p per share. 
Kurt Salmon and Alexander Proudfoot are 
long established and successful consulting 
businesses with a superb portfolio of clients 
and highly capable employees. The Board 
of MCG will continue to focus on promoting 
proﬁtable growth in these businesses to beneﬁt 
our shareholders. 
Alan Barber 
Chairman
5 March 2015



  Overview
 Strategic report
 Governance
 Financials
Strategic 
report
MCG is made up of two businesses:  
Alexander Proudfoot (“AP”) and Kurt Salmon 
(“KS”). Throughout the report the use of this 
symbol signiﬁes whether the whole of MCG or 
one of the two businesses is being discussed.
KS
AP
10  Chief Executive’s review
14  Segmental review: Kurt Salmon
18  Segmental review: Alexander Proudfoot
22  Corporate social responsibility: Our people
24  Corporate social responsibility: Our impact
26  Financial review
32  Principal risks and uncertainties
