 Overview
03
Manganese Bronze Holdings PLC
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report that Manganese Bronze has had a very successful 17 months
to 31 December 2007, the highlights including the finalisation of our joint venture
in China (Shanghai LTI), the successful launch of the TX4 taxi and an increase in
profitability and operating cash generation.
Results for the year
The rather unusual reporting period is caused by our
decision to align the Company’s year end with that of our
Chinese joint venture, Shanghai LTI, and our joint venture
partner, Geely.
In the 17-month period under review, just under 4,200
vehicles were sold which together with ongoing financing,
servicing and parts supply, has generated sales of
£144.5 million and an operating profit of £5.6 million.
Cash generation, despite significant investment in the TX4
and in our new retail premises in London, has been strong,
with operating cash flow of £8.4 million generated during
the period leaving the Group with net cash balances of
£10.3 million at 31 December 2007.
The Group’s net assets have increased significantly
from £21.5 million at 31 July 2006 to £37.5 million
at 31 December 2007. This is due primarily to the cost
of the Group’s share of Shanghai LTI. The Group’s pension
deficit has reduced from £4.7 million to £4.1 million
notwithstanding increased longevity assumptions.
The Group’s funding facilities are all of a long-standing
nature and the Group has very little reliance on bank
borrowings with net cash of £10.3 million at the year end.
Reflecting the Group’s financial performance over the
period, its strong balance sheet and prospects, the Board
is recommending the payment of a final dividend of 1.50p
per share.
Progress on China and international sales
Our joint venture in China, Shanghai LTI, offers the best
potential to secure the long-term profitable future for our
Company. I am therefore very pleased to report excellent
progress. Heads of agreement were signed with Geely
in October 2006 and much effort has been successfully
applied by both companies. The various regulatory and
shareholder approvals were attained by June 2007 and
we have now put in place the organisation and resources
to achieve our targets of first prototype in mid 2008 and
production for sales at the end of 2008. The joint venture
will in one step allow us to solve our strategic issues in
relation to significantly reducing our cost base and enabling
substantial international sales. The construction of the joint
venture with Geely, through their wholly-owned subsidiary
Linkstate Overseas Ltd (which has an interest in 22.83%
of the issued ordinary share capital of Manganese Bronze)
aligns Geely’s interests with the success of our strategy.
Very encouraging progress is also being made with the
development of our international sales and marketing
capability. The market studies to identify and prioritise our
target markets and customers were completed in 2007,
a significantly strengthened team has been put in place
and active prospecting in the identified target markets has
commenced. Consequently considerable interest is being
shown by a wide variety of customers in international
markets. We have already signed memoranda of
understanding for a total of 500 units with delivery starting
in early 2009, clearly demonstrating the attractiveness of
the Shanghai built product.
Dividend
The Board is recommending the payment of a final dividend
of 1.50p which follows an interim dividend of 2.25p and
a second interim dividend of 3.5p. The total dividend for
the 17-month period is 7.25p (12 months ended 31 July
2006: 6.0p, including a special dividend of 1.0p). The final
dividend will be paid on 6 June 2008 to those shareholders
on the register at the close of business on 2 May 2008. Overview
04
Manganese Bronze Holdings PLC
Chairman’s statement continued
Board/people
We were delighted to announce the appointment of John
Russell as Chief Executive in March 2007. His depth of
automotive and international business experience and,
in particular, his sales and marketing expertise will be
invaluable as we progress our controlled expansion into
international markets.
Mark Devin was appointed Company Secretary in June
2007 on a part-time basis which, in turn, allowed Mark
Fryer, Group Finance and Business Development Director
more time to focus on his responsibilities as Deputy
Chairman of Shanghai LTI and to support John Russell
in developing the international market infrastructure to
support our sales plans.
Sheng Yue Gui, Chief Executive Officer of Geely, and
Siu Lun Lawrence Ang, Executive Director of Geely, were
appointed as non-executive directors of Manganese Bronze
in July 2007. They both have a wealth of international
business experience.
A new Long-Term Incentive Plan was approved by
shareholders in November 2007. The scheme is an
important component in incentivising the directors and
senior managers across the Group and is linked to
challenging profitability growth targets that have been
set to exploit the potential for international growth that our
joint venture SLTI enables. I am confident that the scheme
will motivate the management to deliver significant value for
all our shareholders.
This is a vital stage in the development of our Company and
I would like to pay tribute to all our employees for their skill
and resourcefulness in helping to continue the Company’s
success as it broadens into international production and sales.
Current trading and prospects
Our new TX4 taxi has received an excellent market
response and a strong endorsement from our customer
base. Passenger demand for taxis remains healthy despite
uncertainty in London’s financial markets. Sales in the
first quarter are below last year due to this uncertainty and
also in comparison with one of our best first quarter sales
performances in the history of the Group following the
launch of TX4.
We believe that the underlying appeal of the TX4 will
continue to be strong in 2008. We are confident of
delivering a profit performance at least in line with
expectations for the current financial year with any market
uncertainty being more than offset by the benefit of lower
than expected start-up losses in Shanghai LTI.
Shanghai LTI remains on plan to deliver a step change
in the Group’s prospects and financial performance.
Tim Melville-Ross
Chairman
15 April 2008
