 Performance review
05
Manganese Bronze Holdings PLC
Chief Executive’s statement
UK market
Sales in calendar year 2007 were up 23.2% on our sales
in calendar year 2006 and total vehicle sales in the
17-month financial period to 31 December 2007 totalled
4,147. This excellent result was mainly due to the
contribution from the new TX4 model, which was
successfully launched in October 2006, and, in part, due
to the successful run out of the previous TXII model. At the
heart of the TX4 is a new Euro IV powertrain supplied by
VM Motori of Italy. This delivers significant improvements
over previous models in terms of performance, refinement,
emissions and fuel economy. In addition, the TX4 features
a new braking system with ABS, improved suspension and
a host of detailed improvements to benefit both the driver
and passengers. The vehicle was subjected to over one
million kilometres of rigorous testing prior to launch, the
most extensive programme in the Company’s history, to
ensure it would meet the exacting quality, reliability and
durability expectations of the taxi drivers and operators.
The success of the TX4 demonstrates the benefit of
investment in market led product development. We will
continue to invest in features and improvements to the
vehicle that deliver tangible benefits to the drivers and
passengers. In particular, the need to invest in further fuel
economy and emissions improvements continues to be a
key priority. Taxis currently play and will continue to play
an integral role in the transport system of all cities. We will
continue to work with all industry stakeholders to develop
and implement practical, tangible solutions to the challenge
of improving total environmental performance.
The success of the TX4 has contributed to a strong
performance in our finance, parts and retail operations,
a performance which we expect to continue in the future.
Shanghai LTI
The joint venture with Geely Automotive to produce the
TX4, a limousine vehicle derived from the TX4, and two all
new executive saloon cars in Shanghai, has passed a series
of significant milestones.
Heads of terms were entered into in October 2006 and
the process of undertaking all necessary due diligence and
obtaining the required regulatory and shareholder approvals
was successfully completed by June 2007, slightly later than
originally anticipated. In February 2007, Geely successfully
placed 600 million new shares, which generated net
proceeds of HK$609 million (£41.6 million) primarily
to fund Shanghai LTI, of which the Group owns 48%.
In June 2007 Manganese Bronze PLC issued 5.7 million
ordinary shares of 25p (representing 22.83% of the issued
ordinary share capital of the Company) to Linkstate
Overseas Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Geely in
consideration for their investment in Shanghai LTI.
To ensure the earliest possible start up of Shanghai LTI,
we commenced the transfer of key intellectual property
rights in early 2007. Engineering and purchasing staff from
Geely and Manganese Bronze began work on the project
at the same time. By mid 2007, the project team was in
place to deliver the first phase of the joint venture. The joint
venture team includes a number of Manganese Bronze
appointed executives in key positions who supplement the
skills and experience of the Geely team and ensure that our
quality targets are met.
The pace of the joint venture’s activity has increased as
we progress to prototype production in mid 2008, and
the key deliverables of the project continue to be on plan.
In particular, the appointment of suppliers in China, which
is critical for both Chinese production and for the delivery
of cost savings for production in Coventry, is meeting our
expectations in terms of both quality and cost. Testing and
validation of components has taken place through 2007
and into 2008 and the performance to date indicates that
we can meet our aggressive targets for cost reduction which
are required to achieve the significant growth in profitability
that is expected for 2009.
International market development
Studies were completed in 2007 to identify and prioritise
the international market opportunities for the Shanghai
LTI built TX4. These showed that the market opportunity
is significant and comprises three business models. Firstly,
the sale of taxis to existing taxi drivers and operators to
displace a competitive vehicle. Secondly, the development
of new taxi regulations that will accommodate our vehicle
with city and national authorities that want to create a
better taxi service. Thirdly, operators and entrepreneurs
that want to create a branded, high-quality taxi service to
compete with limousine and private hire operators. In all
cases, the appeal of our market offering is the combination
of the capabilities and reputation of the TX4 vehicle and
the international image and reputation of the taxi service
provided in London.
A new team is now in place and focused on developing
the infrastructure to market and sell the Shanghai LTI built
TX4 in international markets. Active market prospecting
commenced in late 2007 with the aim of putting in place
distribution and sales contracts to pre sell the commercial
production, which is due to start at the end of 2008. The
early success of our team has seen them already signed
memoranda of understanding for a total of 500 vehicles
with delivery starting in early 2009, clearly demonstrating
the attractiveness of the Shanghai built product. We are,
in addition, in discussions with around 20 international
customers who have a significant annual demand. These
discussions are advancing well and further updates will be
provided with our interim management statement in May
and half year results in July.
The international market development team is currently
being strengthened with external recruits and in addition,
the team is working closely with their counterparts in the
Geely organisation to ensure that any efficiency opportunities
are exploited and that the sales and marketing strategies
of the two companies are co-ordinated effectively. Performance review
06
Manganese Bronze Holdings PLC
Chief Executive’s statement continued
Mann & Overton
Our wholly-owned Mann & Overton retail operation in
London moved to new larger premises in Brewery Road,
Kings Cross in December 2006 to meet the anticipated
demand for the TX4 and to improve the service provided
to the drivers and operators in London. The facility is three
times the size of our previous facility in Holloway Road.
The demand for and success of the new facility were
demonstrated by the lack of availability of qualified technicians
to keep pace with the growth in service and repair demand.
This issue was addressed by the international recruitment
of highly qualified technicians from Eastern Europe.
Results of the Birmingham Mann & Overton operation
have been disappointing in recent years because of the
age of the local taxi fleet and the lack of enforcement
of regulations. A turnround initiative was implemented
in 2007 and subsequently new management, process
structures and operating methodologies were put in place.
These actions, coupled with improved regulatory
enforcement by the local authorities, have led to a marked
improvement in performance by the Birmingham operation.
London Taxis North America (“LTNA”)
Much effort was applied by the new management team
to address the underlying performance issues in North
America, exploit the advertising and event marketing
opportunity in the USA more effectively and prepare and
plan for the future launch of the Shanghai LTI product.
The exit from the low margin and difficult to control taxi
media business was managed through 2007 and a new
focus on event marketing programmes was put into place.
Event marketing programmes involve LTNA providing fleets
to blue chip marketing organisations and quality managing
the operation of the vehicles. Active promotion of this
improved service commenced in the second half of 2007
and a strong order book for 2008 indicates that we are on
track to improve our financial performance for LTNA in 2008.
Production
We maintained an average production rate of 65 vehicles per
week during the 17-month financial period. We were able
to take advantage of our inherent manufacturing flexibility
and adjust our build rate to balance good availability
of product in the market place with optimised inventory
levels and also to reduce the effect of market seasonality.
We continue to seek out opportunities for efficiency
improvements and cost reductions in Coventry and a
significant investment project was approved to improve
the operation of the press shop. A total of £0.4 million
is to be invested in a new press and associated process
improvements which will come on stream in mid 2008.
The investment will improve productivity, bring pressings that
are currently difficult to source externally back in-house and
provide significant quality and working environment benefits.
The health and safety performance in all areas of the
business continues to be a key focus of the organisation
and is of particular importance in the production operations.
Our record is good, but there is no room for complacency and
we continue to look for ways of improving the processes,
policies, management and operating environment for the
benefit of all associated with our business.
Warranty
The benefit deriving from the focus on quality, reliability and
durability in the development of the TX4 is already evident
in the warranty data. We will fully evaluate TX4 performance
through the three-year warranty period and expect that our
customers will enjoy a quality ownership experience and
that we will be able to reduce our warranty provisions per
vehicle sold in the future.
Summary
We are delighted with the improving profitability and
significant increase in operating cash flow resulting from
the success of the TX4 and the substantial progress we
have made with our joint venture in Shanghai during this
extended financial period.
Our focus in 2008 is on maintaining and increasing the
momentum of the TX4 in the UK whilst investing in
primarily environmentally led product initiatives; putting
the TX4 into production in Shanghai and achieving the
challenging cost, quality, and timing objectives that we have
set; creating the sales and marketing infrastructure to realise
the international sales opportunities for TX4 and realising
our vision to make the London taxi a successful global
icon. The successful implementation of these actions will
generate a marked improvement in our future profitability.
John Russell
Group Chief Executive
15 April 2008
