 Performance review
05
Manganese Bronze Holdings PLC
Chief Executive’s statement
UK trading/market
UK TX4 sales in the 12 months to 31 December 2008, at 1,951,
were down 37.5% on 2007, which was a near record year
following the launch of TX4 in late 2006. When sales are compared
with typical volumes over the previous decade, the decline in TX4
sales in 2008 is broadly in line with the car industry performance
and better than the commercial vehicle sector.
As well as rapidly declining sales, we have also experienced far
greater volatility in monthly sales than has historically been the
case. This is best demonstrated by the two months of October and
December 2008. In October sales were down 72% on 2007 but
up 48% on 2007 in December. The peak sales months of March
and September (around registration plate changes) were also far
more significant in 2008 representing 36.5% of total UK sales
in 2008 compared to 27.7% in 2007. This increased volatility
has made balancing production to sales more challenging than in
the past. This, combined with far greater risk of loss of key single
source suppliers, has led to our holding higher levels of inventory
than in prior years contributing to the large cash outflow.
An undesirable consequence of the downturn in sales has been
an increase in discounting both in our wholly owned dealerships
as well as in independent dealerships. This has contributed to a
decline in residual values which has resulted in a reduction in the
value of our used vehicle inventory by £0.7 million to £3.4 million.
In June, the independent dealer in London announced plans to
sell an adapted Mercedes van that was approved to comply with
the Transport for London Conditions of Fitness. In the second half
of 2008 the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders has
reported sales of 108 Mercedes van conversions and sales of
traditional purpose built TX4s of 839 vehicles. We believe that the
availability of a choice of vehicle in London is of long-term benefit
to the development of the market. We also believe that the
purpose-built TX4 will continue to perform well against this
new competition.
Historically, when new vehicle sales are reduced, the drivers
run their existing vehicle for longer. We have therefore experienced
a strong parts performance in 2008.
Against the challenging new sales backdrop and external
expectation the finance business has had a strong year with new
business volumes up 10.8% and fixed rate margin on new business
up by 4.0%. This has been driven by a reduction in the volume
of competitors in the UK vehicle finance and taxi finance market.
Our relationship with Black Horse Taxi Finance, a business of
Lloyds Banking Group PLC, remains strong.
As previously reported, we have been adversely impacted by the
weakness of sterling versus the euro, as TX4 engines are imported
from Italy. The full year impact is £1.1 million. Cost to support
the Chinese joint venture has reduced in the second half with
a total of £0.6 million for the full year. The Group should benefit
in 2009 as SLTI have agreed to contribute £0.3 million to these
additional costs.
Due to lower sales, the Group’s finished goods inventory is up
by £2.6 million. This, together with losses for the year, dividends,
and pension contributions, has resulted in lower cash at bank
of £1.3 million (2007: £10.3 million). At 31 December 2008
the Group had net debt of £7.2 million (2007: net funds of
£3.2 million).
Shanghai LTI
SLTI, our joint venture with Geely Automotive to produce the
TX4 in Shanghai, has passed a series of significant milestones.
SLTI offers excellent potential to achieve our vision and secure
the long-term profitable future for the Group. SLTI will allow the
volume production of the London taxi at a lower cost, enabling
sales into international markets which we have been unable to
penetrate due to our high cost base UK manufacturing operation.
We are very pleased to report further strong progress in SLTI.
All factory modifications have been completed on time and
to budget, the start of prototype production has been achieved
on schedule and the full ramp up to commercial production
has been announced by SLTI. We are now completing a thorough
programme of final testing and stocking the Geely dealerships
in China prior to the launch of the Shanghai produced TX4 at
the Shanghai Auto Show in April.
In excess of 90% of the individual components required for
the London taxi production in Shanghai are now being procured
in China. Contracted procurement savings are in line with our
expectations. We expect to be utilising in excess of 100 Chinese
produced parts, representing approximately one-third of all
components by value on the UK produced TX4 during 2009, with
a saving of up to 50% of equivalent UK parts prices. This will also
reduce our reliance on our UK supply base which has become
increasingly fragile during the current recession.
International sales
From mid-2009 we will be selling the Chinese produced VM diesel
powered TX4 into international markets. The petrol powered TX4
will be sold into international markets from the third quarter of
2009. Of the 8,000 vehicles signed on MoU the majority are
petrol powered Shanghai produced TX4s.
Close to 200 of these vehicles are currently secured by firm
contracts. The conversion rate of MoUs to firm contracts has been
impacted by our international partners finding it harder to meet our
order funding requirements for payment in advance or letters of
credit. Despite this we still envisage international sales exceeding
our UK sales in 2009.
We expect there may be some loss of vehicles as these convert
from MoU to contract. We do however believe, this wastage aside,
that we can meet the market estimate for international sales
in 2009. Manganese Bronze Holdings PLC
06
Performance review
Chief Executive’s statement continued
The profit per vehicle on international sales may, however, be affected
by the decline in the value of sterling against both the Chinese
Reminbi (“RMB”) and US dollar. This is because, in particular, the
devaluation against the RMB has been almost one-third over the
period from 31 December 2007 to 31 December 2008.
Recall
In September, we announced a TX4 recall with product actions to
include modifications to the emission control equipment, the heat
management system and under bonnet insulation. At that stage,
we announced the cost of the recall to be approximately £4 million.
The recall is now substantially complete with cash costs incurred
of £2.2 million and £1.6 million expected over the course of the
first six months of 2009. A total of £3.8 million has been expensed
in the financial year to 31 December 2008 as an exceptional item.
We are currently in advanced negotiations with our insurers
as well as relevant suppliers and our independent dealer in London
to establish liability and opportunities for recovery of some of
these costs.
We have been notified of three class actions from driver groups
seeking compensation. In addition, we have a small number of direct
claims from drivers. Our lawyers advise these do not have sufficient
legal foundation for liability reasons and therefore no provision has
been made. Our product liability insurers have been notified.
Mann & Overton
Our Mann and Overton retail operation has had a challenging year
with the impact of lower demand, rising discount, falling residual
values and the impact of the recall.
London Taxis North America (“LTNA”)
Much effort has been applied by the management team to address
the underlying performance issues in North America to exploit
the advertising and event marketing opportunity in the USA more
effectively. Financial performance has improved but our view of
likely future trading does not support the carrying value of goodwill
with higher Group cost of capital (due to the credit crunch).
We have therefore written off our investment in goodwill and
intangibles of £2.2 million and also written down the value of the
vehicle fleet by £1.0 million. These are included as exceptional
non-cash accounting items in the income statement.
Production
Due to the extreme volatility we have experienced during 2008
we have had to fully utilise our inherent manufacturing flexibility
and adjust our build rate to balance good availability of product
in the market place with sensible inventory levels. During the year
the daily production rate has swung from a peak of 16 vehicles
per day to 12 vehicles per day. In addition, we have had a total
of six weeks’ production taken out through short-time working
and complete shutdown periods. The Coventry plant is currently
working a four-day week with production of 12 vehicles per day.
The health and safety performance in all areas of the business
continues to be a key focus of the organisation and is of particular
importance in the production operations. Our record is good,
with a measurable improvement in 2008 but with no room for
complacency and we continue to look for ways of improving the
processes, policies, management and operating environment for
the benefit of all associated with our business.
Risk/going concern
The risk profile of the Group has increased significantly in the past
year due to the effects of the current recession. Together with the
marked reduction in our sales we have experienced a far more
significant volatility in our sales cycle. This has made optimisation
of inventory levels far more challenging and has resulted in
higher levels of inventory than would be ideal. This puts pressure
on the use of financing facilities at a time when additional
banking facilities are challenging to obtain. We have provided
security to HSBC over the Group’s assets by way of debenture.
Our relationships with our bankers HSBC and Lloyds remain good.
Another negative consequence of the current economic climate
has seen a significant increase in the risk of loss of key suppliers.
LTI, like most small automotive companies, is single source
for almost every component used to manufacture the vehicle.
Any loss of a key supplier can have major funding consequences
if production is suspended even for a short time period. We do
have contingency plans in place, including procurement from
China, but some components are of greater impact than others.
The restriction of credit from suppliers could have a marked effect
on our working capital. This could arise both from credit suppliers
restricting insurance to the automotive industry as well as suppliers
who do not utilise credit insurance seeking to better manage their
own funding position. The availability of finance to fund our vehicle
sales has not been a major risk for us as it has been for the
automotive industry as a whole.
We are compliant with all terms of finance facilities and these
facilities have been renewed. We have management plans in
place to seek to mitigate financial risks and these have been
stress tested. The directors will seek to investigate opportunities
to strengthen the capital base of the Group in the event of a
further downturn in the economic environment.
We do not provide significant guarantees and do not enter into
long-term arrangements. Liabilities are known and fully managed
within contractual terms. We have demonstrated financial
adaptability through previous periods of low sales. As noted,
our customers are not struggling to access credit to purchase new
TX4s. Our most significant risk is therefore dependence on
counterparties, particularly our suppliers and in most instances
we have contingency plans in place to manage this risk.
The significant risks to the business are detailed below. Performance review
07
Manganese Bronze Holdings PLC
However, current economic conditions create uncertainty
particularly over the level of demand for the Group’s products.
For these reasons, a sensitivity analysis has been performed on
the Group’s forecasts and projections, to take account of
reasonably possible changes in trading performance. This analysis
shows that the Group will be able to operate within the level of its
borrowing facilities. As a consequence, and after making relevant
other enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that
the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the
Board has continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing
the Group’s Annual Report and Accounts 2008.
Summary
The past year has been very challenging. We do not believe that
2009 will be any easier than 2008. The early signs are that UK
volumes may well be lower in 2009 than in 2008, but in line with
our expectations. We have a lower cost base entering 2009 than
we had going into 2008 and with lower carrying values of our
assets. We have sufficient financing facilities in place to manage
through our current financial plan and we are also seeking
Government support additional to these facilities. We continue to
investigate schemes with which to strengthen our balance sheet.
As noted, Shanghai LTI offers the best potential to secure the
long-term profitable future for our Company. The joint venture
will in one step allow us to solve our strategic issues in relation
to significantly reducing our cost base both internationally from
Shanghai and in the UK. This should enable substantial
international sales and a return to profitability for the UK operation.
Our focus in 2009 is on managing the UK operation for cash
and developing a profitable international market and joint venture
operation in China. Our vision remains to make the London Taxi
a successful global icon and successful implementation of our
planned actions will generate marked improvement in our future
profitability and cash flow.
John Russell
Group Chief Executive
4 March 2009
