 commitment
Strong market position
expertise
Highly skilled local workforce
reliability
Quality network and 
customer service
enterprise 
Growth in data centre and 
off-island businesses
culture 
Attractive and affluent  
local market
strategic report
We operate from a unique and beautiful Island whose particular mix of legislative, 
regulatory, and lifestyle attractions make it a special place in which to live, work, 
and do business. We play our part in that mix by driving forward the Island’s 
communications infrastructure, ensuring that the Isle of Man possesses the 
telecoms and related technology necessary for a prosperous 21st century  
economy, and a thriving community.
our vision
T o be the Island’s leader 
in providing high quality , 
innovative communication 
services, richly enhancing 
lives and businesses at 
home and overseas.
our values
Our values are the most 
important behaviours 
and attitudes that our 
colleagues aspire to in their 
working lives, to achieve 
their goals.
4 our values’ ambassadors
enterprising
We are a creative and forward thinking organisation 
with a ‘can-do’ attitude. Wherever possible we 
demonstrate an ‘entrepreneurial spirit’, embracing 
new ideas and challenging current thinking to find 
new and better ways of helping our customers. 
We are resourceful, spirited, enthusiastic and keen. 
In short, we make things happen.
Martyn Quayle 
MT fixed voice engineer
Richard Kearney  
MT network specialist
Julie Rotheram 
MT mobile sales consultant
Jane Smith  
MT customer accounts supervisor
proactive 
At our heart, we are customer-driven, striving 
to deliver on our promises and trying to keep 
one step ahead of our customers’ immediate 
needs. Wherever possible, we think beyond the 
immediate task to look for opportunities to make 
improvements and refine processes. We are alert, 
hard working and committed. In short, we are the 
first to take ownership and responsibility.
confident 
Our ability, ambition, drive, and determination to 
be the best that we can be, enables us to deliver 
excellence in all that we do, both externally to 
customers and internally to our colleagues. We are 
positive, commercially assertive, taking credit where 
it’s due. In short, we lead by example.
trusted 
We are proud to be part of a trusted and reputable 
organisation where everyone acts with integrity in 
an open and honest way and delivers on promises 
made. We recognise our heritage and our role in the 
wider community, where we have always played 
our part in making a difference. We are dependable, 
credible, reputable, and community minded. In short, 
we are a trusted partner .
5 manx telecom plc annual report and accounts 2014
