 Anglo Asian Mining PLC
Annual report and accounts 2007
02
I am pleased to report to you on the Company’s progress 
during the past year.
As incoming Chairman half way through 2007, I have witnessed 
an interesting year in Azerbaijan, where the Company was able 
to consolidate its strategic position in the country and fulfil 
its obligations under the Production sharing Agreement (“PsA”) 
it shares with the Government. Our most important development 
has been the advancement of the Gedabek gold/copper project, 
for which we commenced construction after identifying 
an indicated resource in November 2006. 
During the last twelve months the demand for base and precious 
metals has remained strong, led by the extraordinary growth 
of the Indian and Chinese economies. Gold prices have remained 
buoyant over the period, reaching new highs in early 2008, 
fuelled by soaring oil prices and power outages in south Africa.
Despite record prices for gold, silver and copper, the mining 
industry is struggling to keep pace with the high demand for 
metals. The time from discovery to production has increased 
significantly as companies struggle over land title issues, 
changes to tax laws, environmental constraints, shortages 
of qualified mining individuals and extra long lead times 
on key items of equipment.
Gedabek
At Gedabek, our Company has been fortunate in being able 
to fast‑track this gold and copper mining project, requiring 
small and available machinery, with minimal delays through 
the approval processes. We obtained feasibility study approval 
in June 2007, the environmental approval in september 2007 
and put the financing in place in early 2008. The project is now 
poised to deliver its first gold production before the end of 
2008 with copper production following shortly thereafter.
The Gedabek project consists of an open pit mine producing 
1.5 million tonnes of ore each year, a heap leach pad and 
processing facility for the recovery of gold, copper and silver. 
The stripping ratio is low at around 1.5 to 1.0, enabling the 
flat lying ore deposit to be readily accessed and higher grades 
mined early in the project’s life. The project should return 
its capital investment very quickly due to the high grades 
scheduled to be leached during 2009.
The products from Gedabek, in the form of gold doré and 
copper/silver rich concentrates will be exported for further 
processing and refining. The Company has no restrictions 
on these exports under the terms and conditions of the PsA.
The Gedabek feasibility study was completed in June 2007 and 
the Development and Production Plan was submitted to the 
Government and approved in the third quarter. Environmental 
approvals were also obtained from the Ministry of Ecology and 
Natural Resources during the third quarter. These approvals 
required the completion of a base‑line study and an environmental 
impact study and included a local environmental hearing at which 
the residents of Gedabek were able to express their overwhelming 
support for the project. The Company is determined to maintain 
the highest environmental standards at the mine, recognising 
that it is located close to a populated area.
I am pleased to report that the Group has continued to 
assist the local community at Gedabek. Following severe 
weather damage to schools and public buildings earlier this 
year, we purchased roofing materials which enabled repairs 
to be carried out in a timely manner. We also partnered with a 
local company in Azerbaijan to join the USAID Farmer‑to‑Farmer 
programme to improve the productivity and income of over 
800 families in the Gedabek region.
Exploration
Although the Company focused most of its resources 
on the Gedabek deposit during 2007, exploration efforts 
continued both in Ordubad in the south and at the Gosha 
property, which is located to the north west of Gedabek.
At Gosha, further test sampling and ore grade comparisons 
with Russian data confirmed that potentially economic 
mineralisation exists. The area around Gosha was mapped 
and sampled during the year as part of a reconnaissance 
programme in search of further mineralised areas.
The exploration work in Ordubad was focused around mapping 
and sampling of some of the smaller deposits in the area which 
are considered prospective for copper and molybdenum. 
soils and sediment sampling was also taken out in areas 
between the known mineral occurrences.
The Company has until April 2009 to further evaluate 
the properties it has been granted under the PsA, with the 
possibility of an extension to this time period. We look forward 
to more exploration success, especially if in the future we can 
explore three more prospects located in the Occupied Territories 
of western Azerbaijan.
Sale of CIL plant
Following extensive advertising, the CIL plant purchased 
by the Company in 2005 was sold to a Kazakhstan gold 
producer for a consideration of $7.5 million, before sales costs. 
Although the sale value of the plant was less than expected, 
the cash inflow occurred at a critical time for the Company. 
ChAIRMAN’s sTATEMENT
Our most important development has been the advancement 
of the Gedabek gold/copper project, for which we have commenced 
mine construction.
HIGHLIGHTS
I Gedabek development advanced
I  Bank financing in place
I sale of CIL plant
I Further exploration intended 03
Anglo Asian Mining PLC
Annual report and accounts 2007
The proceeds greatly assisted with financing the Gedabek 
project and enabled the project team to continue with 
the planning and infrastructure requirements.
Financing
The strategy on the further financing requirement of $25 million 
for the Gedabek project was to first explore local Azeri sources 
of debt. The Azerbaijan economy receives increasingly substantial 
revenues from the oil and gas sector and local banks are well 
placed to assist with the funding of ventures to support growth 
in other sectors of the economy.
Through extensive discussions and a strong relationship with 
the IBA, the Company was able to obtain an unsecured $5 million 
credit line from the bank in January 2008 to add to its own 
internal funding. In April 2008 the IBA also committed to 
a $20 million term loan, which has subsequently been executed 
and enables the Company to build the mine at Gedabek. The IBA 
funding is considered a major breakthrough for the Group.
The current forecasts demonstrate that the existing cash resources 
and available debt provide sufficient funds to complete the 
construction of the mine at Gedabek. The Board is aware of 
the current inflationary pressures in the mining industry, the risk 
of delays to the development, production and revenue falling 
short of expectations and the uncertainty that brings to going 
concern. If there are either cost overruns or delays which result 
in a funding shortfall then the Board will have to take steps to 
ensure there is adequate funding in the period to 30 June 2009. 
The major shareholders on the Board have confirmed that they 
would be willing to provide additional funding in such an event 
and also consider that further working capital facilities could be 
negotiated with the IBA. The Company is seeking the approval 
of the shareholders, at the AGM on 23 July to increase the 
borrowing capacity under the Articles of Association to four 
times the Adjusted Capital and Reserves and also to increase 
the ability to allot for cash up to 10% of the current share 
capital on a non pre‑emptive basis. Approval of these Special 
Resolutions will if necessary facilitate the ability to raise additional 
funds. For these reasons the Directors continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements (see note 1 
to the consolidated financial statements). The projected cash flows 
commencing in the first quarter of 2009 will put the Company 
in a strong position to pay back the debt quickly and generate 
funds for future growth.
Financial results
The Group reported a loss of $14,683,306 (2006: $4,428,073). 
The operating loss resulted from the costs of administrative 
expenses of $4,935,566 (2006: $4,824,096), a provision 
for impairment of exploration expenditure and mining rights 
of $6,692,218 (2006: $185,053) and the write‑down of 
the CIL plant held for sale of $3,273,887 (2006: $nil).
Net interest income in the year was $218,365 (2006:$581,126).
Exploration and evaluation expenditure of $2,035,970 
(2006: $6,017,138) was capitalised in the year.
At the year end the Group retained cash balances of $6,810,902 
(2006: $6,354,102): there was no borrowing.
Board and management
In July 2007 I joined the Board as Chairman following the 
departure of Mr Graham Mascall. It was with great pleasure 
that I was able to assist in the challenging process of raising 
the necessary funds to develop the Gedabek project.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Graham Mascall 
for his term as Chairman, during which time the Company’s 
strategic focus was identified and executed.
Following the Company securing its financing, the management 
team in Azerbaijan was enhanced with experienced individuals 
from Kazakhstan to supplement a number of competent Azeri 
staff for the development phase of the project. This combination 
has subsequently been boosted by engaging a Turkish construction 
management group to supervise the construction of the mine.
Tim Eggar has advised the Board that he will not be offering 
himself up for re‑election at the AGM scheduled for 23 July and 
will step down from the Board at that time. Tim has been on 
the Board for the three years following the IPO and on behalf 
of the whole Board I would like to thank him for his significant 
contribution during this period. At the same time Richard Round 
will step down from his executive duties as Finance Director and 
take up a position as a Non‑executive Director also filling the 
vacancy of Chairman of the Audit Committee currently held by 
Tim. This follows the conclusion that we will need a full time 
CFO based in Azerbaijan as we head towards production. We have 
already appointed John Gibson to the non‑board position of 
interim CFO and the search for a full time CFO is underway.
I would like to thank all of our employees for their persistence 
and hard work during 2007. I believe the uncertain phase for 
the Company is behind us and we can look forward to building 
a strong foundation during the coming year. 
Khosrow Zamani 
CHAIRmAn
25 June 2008
