 Anglo Asian Mining PLC
Annual report and accounts 2007
04
A mine development is underway at Gedabek following the Company’s 
successful feasibility study of the project and financing for the full 
scale development.
ChIEF ExECUTIvE’S REvIEw
Introduction
The Group has made some exciting progress during 2007. 
A mine development is underway at Gedabek, following the 
Group’s successful feasibility study of the project and financing 
for the full scale development of the mine. In addition, some 
very good exploration targets are being pursued this year, 
two of which are in the vicinity of the Gedabek development.
The Gedabek project will provide the Group with cash flow 
to assist with its future growth in the region. The highly rated 
Tethyan belt running through Iran, Azerbaijan, Georgia and 
Turkey can be expected to produce more development 
opportunities, as this area remains under‑explored compared 
with many other gold/copper districts throughout the world. 
Funds to be generated by Gedabek and good financial relationships 
in Azerbaijan will place Anglo Asian in a strong position to 
take advantage of the exploration, acquisition and development 
opportunities the region has to offer. As the first major gold 
project in Azerbaijan, the Company is expected to receive on‑going 
support for its activities under its PsA with the Government 
of Azerbaijan. We have acquired rights for mining and exploration 
for up to 25 years in the Gedabek Contract Area, under the PsA 
following the successful discovery.
At least one area in Ordubad and the Gosha prospects remain as 
an exploration target. In addition, the Group holds rights for three 
highly rated prospects in the Occupied Territories to the south 
of Gosha and Gedabek. Following recent political changes 
in Armenia, we are advised that negotiations are progressing 
well between the Governments of Armenia and Azerbaijan.
Exploration programmes
During 2007, the Group focused its efforts on field exploration 
in and around the Gedabek and Gosha Contract Areas. soils and 
grab samples were taken over previously un‑explored territory 
and areas were checked between the known anomalies in these 
Contract Areas. sampling continued at the Gosha prospect and 
at nearby streams and outcrops. samples taken from the 
Maskhit deposit near Gedabek showed there is potential 
for economic grades of copper in the area and the Group will 
focus on this prospect and the known Maarif deposit during 
the 2008 exploration programme.
ORduBAd
Activity in the Ordubad region was restricted to mapping 
and sediment sampling during 2007. The camp at Keleky was 
moved to Gedabek and both geological and ancillary staff 
numbers reduced to focus resources on the Gedabek project. 
however, the Group does intend to explore further in the 
Misdag/Agyurt prospect area, where only limited exploration 
work was possible in the past.
The Group remains optimistic that other prospects such as 
Piyazbashi will become increasingly attractive at sustained high 
gold prices. The Piyazbashi prospect consists of a multitude of 
gold bearing quartz sulphide veins, which vary substantially 
in grade and thickness. Grades from re‑sampling of the adits 
show good correlation with previous Russian data. The Group’s 
sample results returned grades in the range 0.2 g/t to 80.7 g/t, 
reflecting the high variability of grades within each of the vein 
structures. Although tonnages would be restricted by underground 
mining at Piyazbashi and grades diluted in some of the narrow 
veins, the prospect will become more viable as the gold price 
continues to rise.
The Diakhchay copper/gold/molybdenum prospect is another 
target for further work in future exploration programmes. 
some good surface sample results provide added incentive 
to explore this prospect further.
GOSHA
Additional sampling and evaluation at Gosha during 2007 
showed the deposit to be erratic in grade and a high risk 
mining proposition, due to the nature of the ore and apparent 
distribution of the grade. Consistent gold grades would seem 
to be limited to the upper level east‑west structure, which 
has seemingly little potential at depth.
It is considered that substantial underground driving and sampling 
is required to evaluate fully this prospect. Because of the focus 
on Gedabek during 2007, exploration efforts at Gosha were 
restricted. At higher gold prices the option of trucking some 
of this ore to Gedabek for processing remains a possibility.
HIGHLIGHTS
I Gedabek feasibility study successful
I  Funding secured with the IBA
I Gedabek mine development now being progressed
I Exploration targets at Ordubad and Gosha identified Anglo Asian Mining PLC
Annual report and accounts 2007 05
The Gedabek project will provide the Company with cash 
flow to assist with its future growth in the region. Anglo Asian Mining PLC
Annual report and accounts 2007
06
The location, nature and size 
of the Gedabek deposit make it 
ideally suited to open pit mining 
and heap technology.
The current construction schedule 
shows first mine production by 
the last quarter of 2008.
Exploration programmes continued
mAARIF
The geological structure at Maarif is represented by tuffs and 
andesite porphyrites, together with rhyolites. The area was initially 
investigated by siemens during the operation of the nearby 
Gedabek mine. Government geologists have since identified 
an area of strongly hydrothermally altered and tectonically 
dislocated material covering a surface area of four kilometres 
by about 300 metres in width.
A short Government drilling programme, prior to the PsA, 
identified a potential low grade copper resource, which is also 
believed to host gold, silver and molybdenum. The Group is 
undertaking further investigations of this prospect during 2008 
to determine its economic potential. Both its prospectivity and 
close proximity to Gedabek rank Maarif as a high priority 
exploration target for the Company.
Gedabek development
The Gedabek project was taken through scoping, feasibility 
and financing stages during 2007. The project is the highlight 
of a successful year for the Group, and higher metal prices have 
enhanced the potential value of this project. The value of the 
by‑product metals, silver and copper, has also assisted in keeping 
cash costs per ounce of gold well within the first quartile of 
gold producer costs. 
A recently revised capital cost estimate of $25 million for the 
project is consistent with earlier estimates, given that the 
purchasing of a new mining fleet has been deferred until after 
production start‑up. Steel and contracting costs have risen, 
but the Group believes that its current loan facilities will provide 
sufficient finance to take Gedabek to production, although the 
Board is aware of the current inflationary pressures in the mining 
industry and the risk of construction delays, which could result 
in a further funding requirement.
During 2007, the Group produced a feasibility study by mid year 
which showed the Gedabek deposit can be successfully 
developed using relatively simple heap leach technology, 
supplemented by a sulphidation, acidification, recycling and 
thickening of the precipitate (sART) process which recovers 
valuable metal credits for copper and silver. The application 
of this process also reduces overall cyanide consumption by 
returning cyanide associated with copper and silver back into 
the leaching circuit. Its application has been restricted in the 
past by low copper prices. The cost of recovering copper by 
this means is estimated to be higher than $1.00 per pound at 
current costs of reagents. however, at sustained high copper 
prices, the process is finding wider application in the mining 
industry, with several companies introducing sART in similar 
circumstances to Gedabek. The Group was fortunate to retain 
first class consultants in SRK, SGS Lakefield and Knight Piesold 
for this study.
ChIEF ExECUTIvE’S REvIEw CONTINUED Anglo Asian Mining PLC
Annual report and accounts 2007 07
The Gedabek project has been developed from a JORC coded 
resource base of 15.6 million tonnes of ore grading 1.4 g/t 
gold, 0.24% copper and 12.2 g/t silver in the indicated and 
inferred categories. Mining reserves at conservative metal prices 
of $600 per ounce for gold, $6 per ounce for silver and $1.80 
per pound for copper were calculated to be 7.7 million tonnes 
of ore grading 1.80 g/t gold, 15.9 g/t silver and 0.29% copper. 
The mining reserve is very sensitive to both metal prices and 
operating costs. This gives the mine a good chance of extending 
the mine life beyond the current six years on the current resource 
base alone. In addition, the ore body remains open in several 
directions and old stockpiles are likely to account for at least 
one extra year of production. A low grade copper halo surrounding 
the gold/copper ore deposit is also of economic interest, 
should copper prices remain at current levels, together with the 
old siemens workings, most of which lie beneath the planned 
open pit mine.
The location, nature and size of the Gedabek deposit make 
it ideally suited to open pit mining and heap technology. 
Mining will take place on a hill slope with a two kilometre 
haul to a leach pad, which is to be formed on existing sloping 
ground at a similar elevation. No clearing of vegetation is required, 
simply removal of the topsoil. The extensive clay beds in the 
area will provide an ideal, impervious base for the leach pad. 
Earthworks requirements are not extensive and water supplies 
are readily available from nearby streams. To ensure reliability 
of power supply, the Group plans to use its own diesel powered 
generators initially.
Suitable mining and earthworks contractors have been identified 
in Azerbaijan. Consideration will be given to purchasing a mining 
fleet once construction work and the pre‑strip mining is underway 
dependent on cash flows and performance of the mining 
contractor during the construction phase.
The current construction schedule shows first mine production 
by the last quarter of 2008. The mining schedule has been 
designed to access high grade ore relatively early in the mine 
life. Gold production is expected to exceed 80,000 ounces 
during 2009.
The Group is fully committed to its environmental and safety 
obligations at Gedabek. An environmental baseline study and 
environmental impact study were completed during the year 
and approved by the Government authorities. Land has been 
assigned to the project for its duration and both the Gedabek 
community and local authorities have strongly supported the 
development. The project is of national importance to the 
Azerbaijan Government in a country dominated by the oil 
sector. Gedabek will be the first significant gold mining 
project in the country.
Infrastructure
The Group has substantially improved its facilities at Gedabek 
during 2007. The rented hotel has been upgraded to accommodate 
additional staff and workers, adding a new dining room and 
improving plumbing and communications systems. In June 2007, 
work commenced on the permanent mine camp. Most of the 
camp buildings have been constructed under Company supervision, 
using local labourers. This approach has been successful and 
good quality work has been achieved. The exploration camp 
from Ordubad was moved to Gedabek as a starting point for 
the camp, which is planned to accommodate 80–100 staff 
during operations.
CIL plant
The CIL plant was sold during the third quarter of 2007 for 
$7.5 million, before costs of disposal, providing cash reserves 
to continue with the Gedabek development and arrange 
project financing.
Staffing
During 2007, the Group retained sufficient staff to keep the 
Gedabek project moving and has since appointed construction 
and operating personnel to commence the early construction 
work. several experienced operations personnel have been recruited 
from Kazakhstan to assist with the mine start‑up. These people 
complement a local Azeri management team, several of whom 
have a mining or oil industry background. It is anticipated 
that additional management resources will be needed during 
construction and these are being sought from neighbouring 
Turkey and Iran, where the mining industries has been 
firmly established.
Attention has been given to the reduction of our cost base and 
we have achieved savings from the closure of the London office 
in February 2007.
Financing
The Group has obtained funding since the year end from 
the IBA which enables us to develop Gedabek. The Bank has 
provided two facilities, firstly, one of $5 million repayable in 
three years and secondly, one of $20 million repayable over four 
years with a two year grace period. Both facilities carry interest 
at 15%. Further details on this and going concern are given 
in the finance review.
Gordon Lewis
CHIEF ExECuTIvE
25 June 2008
