 8 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2003
Chief Executive’s Review
All three Divisions made progress in 2003 and
contributed to the Group achieving a profit before
tax of more than £50 million for the first time. This
was made possible largely through the hard work
and dedication of our managers and employees in
delivering our business plans. I would like to
express my sincere thanks to them all. The
paragraphs that follow give some insight into
how this result was achieved.
Landscape Products Division
Sales in 2003 were £288.8 million (2002: £270.4
million) an increase of 6.8 per cent over last year.
Operating profit rose by 8.8 per cent to £44.9
million (2002: £41.2 million).
Drivesett Tegula Circle Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2003 9
The Marshalls Register of approved installers,
created to guarantee quality of installation, and
therefore provide peace of mind for the home
owner, is now in its fourth year of existence.
During 2003 the number of installers on the
Register increased by 11 per cent.
During the year we began working with a number
of the major housebuilders to offer buyers the
option of a Marshalls designed garden as part of
the package. The offer includes our normal ten
year guarantee, because the installation is carried
out by members of the Register. The scheme is in
its early stages but initial response is very
encouraging.
The objective of our marketing is also to ensure
that consumers are aware of the full range of
products Marshalls has available to transform
gardens and driveways. Our market research
confirms a hunger for new products that are
aesthetically different in terms of colour, shape,
size and finish. We therefore continue to invest in
product innovation to satisfy this demand. An
example would be our Woodstone range
introduced in 2003 which we will add to in 2004.
Domestic Market
The domestic market for landscape products
continued to grow in 2003. Sales increased by 
7 per cent. The results were helped by increased
marketing. For the first time we sponsored the
lunchtime television slot on UK Style, a satellite
channel focussed on gardening programmes. This
and other promotional expenditure, designed to
grow the market, improve brand awareness and
create leads for installers who are members of the
Marshalls Register worked very successfully. A total
of 200,000 telephone and web based enquiries
were generated during the year for the Marshalls
Register members. Consumer brand awareness
increased substantially. To build on this success TV
sponsorship has been renewed for 2004.
Woodstone Diagonal Decking, Light Oak
Driveline Elite, Heather Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2003 10
Commercial and Public Sector Market
Sales to the commercial and public sector market
for landscape products grew by 7 per cent in
2003. In this important part of our business we
have been working with architects and others to
develop new products and product solutions.
During 2003 we launched a new range of paving
offering exciting shapes and colours to allow
much more scope for freedom of expression by
architects in the design and layout of the
landscape surrounding commercial and public
sector building projects. Also, after extensive
market research, we have carried this idea
through to the creation of co-ordinated product
solutions focussed on different types of landscape
projects like schools, hospitals, offices and retail.
In addition we provide high quality technical
advice and support from the conceptual stage of
a project through to final installation. We have
recently developed a patented method for
producing our commercial block paving in a
packaged format suitable for immediate machine
laying in large commercial projects. This
significantly speeds up installation and reduces
the amount of manpower needed.
La Linia, Light Granite 11 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2003
Manufacturing and Distribution
The operating strategy of the Division which we 
have continued to refine, combines regional
manufacturing and distribution sites with national
manufacturing works, that produce all newly
introduced and special products that have not yet
reached the commercial volumes that would justify
regional manufacture.
The regional sites are known as ‘Service Centres’and
are unique in the Industry. Each of them can supply
customers in the area with our full range of products.
The products we sell are bulky and relatively low
value, and therefore expensive to distribute.
The Service Centres give Marshalls a major
competitive advantage by being close to market.
This will be even more significant when in 2005 the
Working Time Directive is introduced in the haulage
industry, predicted to increase distribution costs by
an estimated 15 per cent.
During 2003 the Division spent £36 million on
capital expenditure. There were two large projects
carried out besides normal replacement and
efficiency improvements.
The first major project involved the rebuilding and
expansion of the Service Centre at Maltby, South
Yorkshire. Some existing product capacity was
replaced with more up to date equipment, and
additional capacity added to enable other products
to be made in the Region to make it self sufficient.
The first phase of the project is operational. The
remaining capacity is due to be commissioned in
April 2004.
The second major project was for an additional
production facility at Sandy, Bedfordshire, one of the
National Manufacturing sites. The new facility
includes plant to produce the two new product
families referred to earlier, the new colours and
shapes in concrete block paving, and the special
packs of concrete block paving suitable for being
laid by machine.
The remaining expenditure was for smaller
productivity improvement schemes with a rapid
payback, essential health and safety expenditure
and replacement of worn out assets.
Stocks
Finished goods stock levels have been reduced by
£5 million during 2003. This was achieved without
reducing manufacturing efficiencies and allowing
the maintenance of a stable employment pattern.
Numbers employed, were therefore constant
throughout the year. Production levels have now
been increased, helped by further productivity gains
from the investment we have made. Sophisticated
production scheduling software being introduced
during 2004, once fully implemented, will allow us to
reduce stock levels still further.
Outlook
In the domestic sector, Register members ended the
year with forward order books averaging 10 weeks.
This is similar to the position at the start of 2003, and
gives us confidence in terms of future demand as we
enter 2004.
The forecast for new work from the Construction
Products Association based on an interpretation of
current Government, Local Authority and private
spending plans shows continuing growth in new
work over the next three years. Our on-going focus
on the introduction of new product solutions
resulting in improved product mix gives us
confidence in our ability to deliver further growth
this year in commercial and public sector sales.
New Fleet Vehicles Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2003 12
Clay Products Division
Sales amounted to £32.1 million (2002: £30.3
million) an increase of 6.2 per cent. Operating
profit at £4.2 million was £0.2 million below 
last year. This result has to be viewed against the
background that, at the end of the first half,
operating profit was 26.1 per cent lower than
2002.
At the half year profits were lower due mainly to a
raw material supply problem at one of the brick
production sites. The problem was overcome and
together with the many profit improvement
projects we have underway, almost all the lost
ground was made up. Profits in the second half
were significantly ahead of last year.
Finished goods stocks were down by 38 per cent
to the lowest level since the early 1990’s. The
business generated net cash of £7.7 million in
2003. We have for some time been promising
shareholders an improved performance from the
Division in line with the standards we have
achieved  in the other parts of the Group. Under a
new Managing Director the results are now
starting to be delivered.
Outlook
The market for bricks was 4.4 per cent ahead in
2003. Industry stocks ended the year at
historically low levels. Market conditions are
therefore more favourable than for some time.
Our business is well placed to take advantage of
these improved trading conditions. With firmer
prices in the market, together with further
improvements in operating efficiency, we expect
to show further positive progress in 2004.
Cambridge Burwell White Brick, Thames Valley Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2003 13
Natural Stone Division
Sales at £28.5 million (2002: £25.0 million) were
14.3 per cent ahead of last year, helped by the
acquisition of a sand and gravel business made
just before last year end. Operating profit of £4.1
million (2002: £3.3 million) was 23.5 per cent up
on last year, and 7.3 per cent ahead on a like for
like basis.
A number of prestigious projects were completed
during the year. These included the further
pedestrianisation of Trafalgar Square. We
commenced supply for the perimeter roads at
Terminal 5 at Heathrow and, during 2004, will
supply product for Liverpool Package X and
Spitalfields in London.
We continued to invest in machinery to increase
productivity throughout the business. Further
benefits will result from this investment in 2004.
We have identified further stone reserves that we
own for paving and aggregates. These will be
developed progressively to provide additional
revenue streams during 2004.
Outlook
The expansion of Natural Stone since its
establishment as a separate Division has been
rapid. With the investment we are making in
equipment and the development of additional
reserves we expect the growth to continue.
Group Outlook
The progress that has been made in all three
Divisions during 2003, and the plans that have
been outlined above for 2004 should reassure
shareholders that the Group is in a strong position
to meet the challenges we face. It should also be
clear that we are strongly committed to maintain
the market leadership and profit growth we have
achieved in recent years.
Graham Holden
Chief Executive
Granite Bespoke Masonry, City Square, Leeds
