 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 8
Chairman’s Statement
I am delighted that, after 6 difficult years, I now believe we are turning the
corner. Economic conditions are improving and forward indicators continue
to be more positive. Of course, this presents new challenges and requires your
Board to develop new priorities but it also brings opportunity. Marshalls’
strong operational and financial flexibility means the business is well placed
to take full advantage of these improving market conditions. 
I am pleased to report that Marshalls’ revenue is up 2 per cent and operating
profit and profit before tax are up 25 per cent and 40 per cent respectively.
The Group’s earnings per share at 6.94 pence is up 26 per cent.
We recognise the importance of dividends to shareholders. The Group continues to have a policy of 2 times
dividend cover over the business cycle and as earnings increase we would plan to share the increase between
strengthening cover and progressively raising the rate of dividend. The Board is recommending a final dividend
of 3.50 pence (2012: 3.50 pence) per share which, together with the interim dividend of 1.75 pence (2012: 1.75
pence) per share, makes a combined dividend of 5.25 pence (2012: 5.25 pence) per share.
As your Chairman, it is my responsibility to lead and manage the Board in its key task of directing the Group’s
vision, values and strategy. My main priorities continue to be focused on the development of the Marshalls’
strategy, promoting the highest standards of corporate governance and ensuring effective communication
with shareholders. Board development is a constant priority and we continue to challenge the effectiveness
of the Board against detailed and regularly updated objectives. 
In my report last year I set out a number of specific Board actions for 2013 including the enhancement of the
strategic planning process, succession planning, Board training on risk and increased shareholder engagement.
I am pleased to report significant progress against all of these commitments. Our priorities for 2014 include
revisiting diversity in the context of succession planning, enhanced Board reporting and creating opportunities
to add value from the experience and expertise of Non-Executive Directors. 
Our medium term objective is to return Marshalls to the level of revenue and profitability enjoyed before the
recession. To deliver this, our key priorities are:
• To increase output to meet growing demand and to deliver benefits from operational gearing;
• To strengthen and extend the Marshalls brand focusing on innovation, service and new product
development;
• To develop “strategic growth initiatives” for targeted investment and focus; and
• To develop and grow profitably the International business and invest prudently in new overseas market
opportunities.
Martyn Coffey became Chief Executive on 10 October 2013 and has already made a significant contribution.
He has an outstanding track record as a proven Chief Executive in growing businesses and brings significant
international experience. On the same date Graham Holden stepped down from the Board and I am pleased
that he is remaining with the business until April 2014 in order to ensure a comprehensive handover and
seamless transition. Graham has worked tirelessly for Marshalls for 27 years, the last 10 of which he has been
Chief Executive. On behalf of the Board and all of Marshalls' staff I would like to thank him for his leadership
and stewardship at a time of significant change in our industry. 
Andrew Allner 9 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
This year’s Annual Report incorporates a number of new features to make the Group’s strategy and
performance easier to understand. I hope this will provide a clearer picture of the Group’s Business Model, its
objectives and key strategic themes. The 2013 Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with
the new Regulations.
This year we are proposing to introduce a new Management Incentive Plan which has a focus towards long
term incentive and share-based awards. Its purpose is to ensure that the Group’s management incentives
continue to be aligned closely with the interests of shareholders and the relevant performance criteria are
directly in accordance with the Group’s strategic objectives and priorities. More information can be found in
the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 63 to 90.
Whilst our customers remain at the very centre of our business model, it is our employees that ensure that
the Group continues to work effectively. On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all our employees for
their ongoing support, commitment and dedication to Marshalls. 
We are planning for good progress in 2014 against a background of improving market conditions.
Andrew Allner
Chairman
Misteri Polished Granite Internal Stone Flooring, Trinity, Leeds
