 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 10
Chief Executive’s Report
Introduction 
I am pleased to present my first report as Chief Executive of Marshalls plc. The
Company has a leading, trusted brand and a strong market position and
maintains clear values and excellent sustainability and environmental
credentials. In my first 6 months I have spent time at most of our
manufacturing operations and quarries and I have been impressed by the
loyalty, professionalism and pride of the Group’s workforce, which I believe to
be one of the Group’s main strengths. 
Graham Holden has provided valuable support in our transition period and I
would like to take this opportunity to wish him well for the future and to thank him for his leadership and
commitment to Marshalls, particularly during the difficult recent past. 
The last 6 years has seen significant economic and commercial challenges and, in common with many
businesses, Marshalls has experienced some of the most difficult trading conditions in its history. In response
to a significantly declining market the Group reacted quickly to reduce its cost base through plant closures
and headcount reduction. Despite this, the Group has maintained its national geographic coverage and still
retains lowest cost to market and industry leading customer service. The Group has also worked hard to ensure
the retention of operational and financial flexibility and this leaves Marshalls well placed to benefit from the
improving market conditions. The Group’s continuing investment in marketing, sales and operations has
helped maintain its market leading position.
2013 Trading Summary
Marshalls' revenue, from continuing operations, for the year ended 31 December 2013 was up 2.1 per cent at
£307.4 million (2012: £300.9 million) and compares with a 4 per cent reduction at the Half Year. Revenue for
the 6 months to 31 December 2013 was up 9.5 per cent compared with the second half of 2012. Growth has
been seen in the second half in the Public Sector and Commercial and also the Domestic end markets. 
Sales to the Public Sector and Commercial end market, which represent approximately 63 per cent of Marshalls'
sales, were up 0.9 per cent for the year, on a continuing basis, compared with 2012, reflecting the anticipated
improved market conditions in the second half. 
Sales to the Domestic end market, which represent approximately 32 per cent of Group sales, were up 1.6 per
cent compared with the prior year. The survey of domestic installers at the end of February 2014 revealed
order books of 9.3 weeks (2013: 7.8 weeks) notwithstanding the increased activity of the last 6 months.
Operating profit from continuing operations was £16.1 million (2012: £12.9 million, before operational
restructuring costs and asset impairments). EBITDA from continuing operations was £30.2 million (2012: £28.1
million, before operational restructuring costs and asset impairments). 
Basic EPS from continuing operations was 6.94 pence (2012: 5.52 pence, before operational restructuring costs
and asset impairments), an increase of 26 per cent. EPS from total operations was 7.20 pence (2012: loss of
2.91 pence).
On 30 April 2013 the Group completed the sale of a number of quarries and associated aggregates businesses
to Breedon Aggregates England Limited for an initial cash consideration at completion of £17.5 million. On
23 August 2013 additional consideration of £1.2 million was received following the satisfactory completion
of a post completion condition. The post-tax profit from discontinued operations in the year ended 31
December 2013 was £0.5 million, which included a net profit on disposal of £0.3 million.
Martyn Coffey 11 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Cash realised from the sale of quarries and associated aggregate businesses together with the continued
control of inventory and capital expenditure has resulted in a reduction in net debt to £35.6 million (2012:
£63.5 million).
The quarries that were sold supplied solely aggregates, sand and gravel. The Group has retained all of its
dimensional stone quarries, some of which produce aggregate as an ancillary product. The Group retains
significant reserves of dimensional stone and related aggregates and these are summarised on page 16. These
actions have enabled the Group to improve materially on its target net debt to EBITDA ratio of 2 times by the
end of 2013. The net debt to EBITDA ratio at 31 December 2013 is 1.2 times.
Fairstone Sawn Sandstone Steps, Golden Sand Multi Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 12
Current priorities
The current opportunity for Marshalls is to benefit from improving
market conditions and to create increased demand in the brand to
pull additonal sales through our continually developing distribution
channels. We are seeing growth in a number of key areas, for example,
Landscape Water Management and Internal Natural Stone Flooring
together with Home, Rail and Retail. The Group’s current priorities are:
• To increase output to meet growing demand and to deliver
benefits from operational gearing;
• To strengthen and extend the Marshalls brand focusing on
innovation, service and new product development;
• To develop “strategic growth initiatives” for targeted investment
and focus; and
• To develop and grow profitably the International business and
invest prudently in new overseas market opportunities.
Marshalls’ Business Model has its customers as the core focus and this
is explained in more detail on pages 14 to 17. The Group continues
to have customer service as a key KPI and maintains industry leading
standards of product quality, availability and “on time” delivery. The
combined customer service measure continued to be in excess of 97
per cent throughout 2013. 
Customer service lies at the heart of the Marshalls brand. The Brand
strategy is focused on “Creating Better Landscapes” covering all
aspects of Economic, Social and Environmental impacts of hard
landscaping and, where possible, even greater alignment under this
brand will be introduced in future. As hard landscaping experts, the
key priorities remain service, quality, design, innovation and a
commitment to research and development, sustainability and an
integrated product offer. As the economy continues to recover,
greater emphasis will be placed on the further extension of the
Marshalls’ brand across all aspects of hard landscaping. The Group’s
key strategic themes are set out in detail in the Strategic Report on
pages 14 to 47.
Marshalls continues to focus on product innovation and service
delivery initiatives to drive sales growth in all its end markets in order
to benefit from the operational and financial flexibility that has been
built into the Group over recent years. The Group is well placed to
improve trading margins and deliver growth in all its end markets and
key focus areas. 
Stone cladding, which is a relatively new area of focus for the Group,
is a particular growth area and Marshalls is supplying  stone for a new
prestigious office building in the City of London.
St Bees Sandstone and Locharbriggs Sandstone 13 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Developing the International market is a key priority and sales currently comprise around 5 per cent of Group
Revenue, having increased by 23 per cent during 2013. The Group will continue to invest in its International
structures in order to grow profitably this part of the business and to develop opportunities to promote growth
both organically and by acquisition. The Group has recently appointed an International Director who will add
further focus to this important area. 
Future outlook
The Construction Products Association’s (“CPA”) Winter Forecast predicts growth of 3.4 per cent in 2014 and
5.2 per cent in 2015, which compares with 2.7 per cent and 4.6 per cent respectively in their Autumn Forecast.
The CPA predicts that growth in private house building, infrastructure work and commercial activity will drive
recovery in the sector over the next 4 years although they do also point to considerable uncertainties regarding
the long term sustainability of the recovery. 
The actions Marshalls has taken over recent years to reduce the cost base and debt, whilst maintaining
operational flexibility, means the business is well positioned to take full advantage of the improving market
conditions. In addition, there are further opportunities to refocus the business and achieve growth, and set
rigorous targets and a clear growth objective for the years ahead.
Sales in January and February 2014 are up 18 per cent against very weak weather-affected comparatives.
Marshalls is increasing output to meet growing demand and deliver benefits from operational gearing. The
medium term objective is for the Group to return to the revenue and profit levels that were achieved by
Marshalls before the recession. 
Martyn Coffey
Chief Executive
Internal Stone Flooring, One New Change Street, London
