 Strategic Report
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
02
Domestic 
Customers: National and independent builders merchants, 
DIY groups, professional landscapers, garden designers and 
driveway installers
Products: Garden paving, driveways, garden paths, 
kerbs and edging, garden accessories and garden walling
Public Sector and Commercial
Customers: Local authorities, commercial architects, 
specifiers, contractors, house builders and builders merchants
Products: Block paving, natural stone, kerb, street furniture, 
water management, traffic calming, walling and mortars
At a Glance
Our business
Marshalls believes that the better our environment, the 
better we can be, and strives to create products that improve 
landscapes and create happier and healthier communities.
Est. 1890
10
Read more in our 
Operational Review on page 10
We have been supplying superior natural 
stone and innovative concrete products to 
the construction, home improvement and 
landscape markets since the 1890s.
2,000 employees
Our success depends on our people. 
Because of that, we are committed to the 
highest health and safety measures for all 
of our employees.
Expansion
The Company continues to focus on 
extending its global reach into Europe, 
Asia, the Middle East and North America.
Our operations
The Group operates quarries and manufacturing sites 
throughout the UK, with its national network of manufacturing 
and distribution sites, and has operations in Belgium and 
representation in other international markets including its 
US sales office and its sourcing and quality office in China. 
The UK business consists of a single integrated logistics 
and distribution operation supplied by centrally managed 
production units. We produce and deliver a range of 
products that are sold into each end market area. The same 
capital equipment produces products for both the Domestic 
and the Public Sector and Commercial end markets and this 
flexibility remains a key operational objective.
The structure gives flexibility in the development of 
individual products under the Marshalls brand whilst 
providing strategic focus through the integrated 
national and centrally administered functions.
Our customers and product ranges
Marshalls is the market-leading supplier of hard landscaping 
products to both the Domestic and Public Sector and 
Commercial end markets. We are the complete external 
landscaping, interior design, paving and flooring products 
business – from planning and engineering, to guidance 
and delivery. Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
03
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Key areas of geographic focus:
Europe through Marshalls NV Belgium/France
North America through distribution agreements such 
as Unilock and Stone Pavers
Middle East through special projects in the  
UAE/Kuwait/Qatar
Marshalls has been voted a Business 
Superbrand every year since 2010. 
Superbrands is an annual initiative to identify 
and celebrate Britain’s strongest consumer 
and business-to-business brands.
13
Read more about our 
achievements on page 13
Our global reach
The Group has a unique national network of manufacturing 
and distribution sites and has a wide geographical spread. 
An expanding geographic coverage continues to enable 
Marshalls to be close to its customers.
As well as quarrying and processing significant quantities of 
British natural stone, Marshalls has major supplier partnerships 
in India and China and also imports other specialist stone from 
around the world. The Group continually seeks opportunities 
to expand reserves and geographical coverage.
Our achievements
The Group has pioneered the ethical sourcing of natural stone 
paving from India, China and Vietnam. Marshalls' "Fairstone" 
products combine the attributes of fair trade and ethical sourcing 
by incorporating regular independent supply chain audits. 
Fairstone Sawn Versuro King Size
