 Strategic Report
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
06
Chief Executive’s Statement
Martyn Coffey
Chief Executive
Introduction
2014 has been a strong year for Marshalls with significant revenue 
and profit growth. Trading conditions remain positive and the Group 
continues to experience strong order intake and sales growth in all its 
end markets. Marshalls’ operating flexibility has enabled manufacturing 
output to be increased without significant increase in the Group’s cost 
base and this is delivering benefits from our operational gearing. The 
Group’s underlying operating margin has increased from 5.2 per cent to 
7.6 per cent during the year and volume growth of 13 per cent in 2014 
has been significantly ahead of CP A market forecasts.
Marshalls is a leading, trusted brand with a strong market position and 
maintains clear values and excellent sustainability and environmental 
credentials. The Group has maintained its national geographic coverage 
and retains lowest cost to market and industry-leading customer service. 
I am particularly pleased to report that there has been a significant 
performance improvement in our smaller UK businesses during 
2014 and they have collectively delivered volume revenue growth of 
£9.3 million and related profit growth of £2.7 million. These businesses 
include Street Furniture, Mineral Products and Stone Cladding. Stone 
Cladding is a particular growth area and Marshalls has been supplying 
stone for a prestigious office building in the City of London.
Jack Clarke joined Marshalls as Group Finance Director on 
1 October 2014. Most recently, Jack has been Executive Vice President 
and Director of Change Management at AMEC plc, having previously 
served as CFO of AMEC’s £850 million power and process division and 
its US$1.5 billion environment and infrastructure division. His extensive 
experience is already contributing to the Board and the Executive. 
2014 trading summary
Marshalls' revenue, from continuing operations, for the year 
ended 31 December 2014 was up 17 per cent at £358.5 million 
(2013: £307.4 million). Revenue for the six months ended 
31 December 2014 was up 18 per cent compared with the 
second half of 2013. This continued growth in the second half 
has been seen in the Public Sector and Commercial and also 
the Domestic end markets. 
Summary
The Group’s current priorities are:
Increase output.
To increase output to meet growing 
demand and to deliver benefits from 
operational gearing.
Grow our business.
To grow our business both organically and 
selectively through acquisitions.
Further strengthen.
To further strengthen the Marshalls brand, 
focusing on innovation, service and new 
product development.
Continue to develop.
To continue to develop and invest in our 
strategic growth initiatives.
Develop and grow.
To develop and grow the International 
business profitably. Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
07
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
The strategic focus is 
now firmly on growth.
Continued emphasis is being placed on innovation 
and growth initiatives and the further development of 
the Marshalls brand across all the Group's businesses.
Sales to the Public Sector and Commercial end market, which represent 
approximately 64 per cent of Group sales, were up 20 per cent for the 
year, on a continuing basis, compared with 2013. 
Sales to the UK Domestic end market, which represent approximately 
30 per cent of Group sales, were up 9 per cent compared with the prior 
year. The survey of domestic installers at the end of February 2015 
revealed order books of 9.0 weeks (2014: 9.3 weeks).
International revenue grew by 27 per cent during 2014 and is 
now 6 per cent of Group sales. Activity levels in Belgium have been 
encouraging despite the subdued market background in mainland 
Europe. During the second half we have acted to ensure that the 
operations in Belgium are better aligned with market opportunities 
and this has resulted in a charge of £2 million in relation to the 
restructuring of Marshalls NV.
Operating profit from continuing operations was £25.3 million 
(2013: £16.1 million). EBITDA from continuing operations was 
£38.5 million (2013: £30.2 million). 
Basic EPS from continuing operations was 10.13 pence (2013: 6.94 pence), 
an increase of 46 per cent. Reported EPS from total operations was 
10.13 pence (2013: 7.20 pence).
Current priorities
The Group has a number of current priorities that will grow and develop 
the business this year and into the future. The current focus for Marshalls 
is to maximise the benefits from the improved market conditions in order 
to generate volume growth and benefit from operational gearing. We 
have already seen operating margins improve during 2014 and a key 
objective will be to deliver further improvement in profit margins in all 
businesses and end markets. We continue to experience strong growth 
in a number of key areas, for example, Rail, Newbuild Housing, Water 
Management and Street Furniture. 
The key priorities remain service, quality, design, innovation and 
a commitment to research and development, sustainability and 
an integrated product offer. The Group’s key strategic initiatives are 
set out in detail in the Strategic Report on pages 14 and 15.
Health and safety is a key priority and Marshalls remains committed 
to improving the quality and safety of the working environment by 
maintaining the highest health and safety standards. During 2014 
there was a 30 per cent reduction in days lost from workplace incidents, 
which is comfortably ahead of the Group’s headline target of 10 per cent.
The Group is well positioned to grow both organically and through 
acquisition. We will put increasing focus on our growth objectives in 2015 
and 2016.
Marshalls continues to have customer service as a key KPI and 
maintains industry leading standards of product quality, availability 
and “on time” delivery. The combined customer service measure 
continued to be in excess of 97 per cent throughout 2014. 
The Group has continued to focus on innovation and new product 
development to drive sales growth in areas of particular opportunity 
and to further strengthen and differentiate the Marshalls brand. The 
Group intends to invest further resource over the medium term to 
drive further innovation and new product development. One specific 
area of opportunity is “intelligent street furniture, ” which would see the 
incorporation of new technology into street lighting systems and items 
such as bollards and bins. The technology facilitates the communication 
of information; for example, bins that can signal when they need 
emptying and bollards that can inform pedestrians where to go. 
Developing the International market is also a key priority and the Group will 
continue to invest in its International structures in order to grow this part of 
the business profitably and to develop opportunities to promote growth. 
Martyn Coffey
Chief Executive
