 Strategic Report
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
04
Chairman’s Statement
Our values
Marshalls is built on 
four key values.
Demonstrating leadership.
We believe in driving the industry forward. 
It is an ambition we've been acting on for 
120 years.
Delivering excellence.
Our products have to be innovative, 
our people have to be the best and 
our workmanship has to be perfect.
Building trust.
Everyone at Marshalls acts with integrity, 
treating customers and their projects with 
care and respect.
Being sustainable.
We use the world to source our products, 
so we have a responsibility to look after it.
Andrew Allner
Chairman
Overview
I am pleased to report that 2014 has been a good year for your Company 
and that 2015 has started well. We have seen a significant improvement 
in revenue and profitability as the Group has taken full advantage of the 
more favourable market conditions. The new Executive team is now fully 
established and we have a clear strategy. Furthermore the Construction 
Products Association (“CP A”) has continued to strengthen its forecasts 
during the last year and the Government’s positive announcements 
on infrastructure projects should also provide further opportunity for 
growth. Our primary objective remains to improve the profitability 
of all our businesses and to deliver sustainable shareholder value. 
Results
I am delighted to report that Marshalls’ revenue is up 17 per cent 
to £359 million and profit before tax is up 72 per cent to £22.4. 
The Group’s earnings per share at 10.13 pence is up 46 per cent.
Dividends
We recognise the importance of dividends to our shareholders. The Group 
has a progressive dividend policy with the objective of achieving up to 
2 times dividend cover over the business cycle. As earnings increase we 
plan to share the increase between strengthening cover and progressively 
raising the rate of dividend. Accordingly the Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 4.00 pence (2013: 3.50 pence) per share which, together with 
the interim dividend of 2.00 pence (2013: 1.75 pence ) per share, makes 
a combined dividend of 6.00 pence (2013: 5.25 pence ) per share. This 
represents dividend cover of 1.7 times (2013: 1.3 times) and an increase 
in the total dividend for the year of 14 per cent. 
Strategy
As your Chairman, it is my responsibility to lead and manage the 
Board in its key task of debating and formulating strategy.
The Marshalls brand remains central and the Group has again 
received “Superbrand” status for 2015. Marshalls is a benchmark 
for excellence in the industry and the 3 cornerstone themes 
of customer service, quality and sustainability remain essential to 
the brand and put the customer at the very heart of our business. Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
05
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Continual innovation is a key focus and it has been particularly 
encouraging to see the success of new products in areas such 
as drainage and water management and rail.
A full explanation of our strategic objectives is set out in our 
Strategy Report on pages 14 and 15.
Governance
I and the Board are committed to promoting the highest standards 
of corporate governance and ensuring effective communication 
with shareholders.
This year’s Annual Report has a fresh new feel and incorporates 
a number of features to make it easier to read and understand. 
We hope this will provide shareholders with a clearer picture of 
the Group’s business model, its objectives and key strategic themes 
and will ensure a fair, balanced and understandable assessment 
of the Group’s position and prospects.
Board development is a constant priority and we continue to 
challenge the effectiveness of the Board against detailed and 
continually developing performance criteria. In my report last year 
I set out a number of specific Board actions for 2014 including 
diversity in the context of Board succession planning, enhanced 
Board reporting and creation of opportunities to add value from 
the experience and expertise of the Non-Executive Directors.
I am pleased to report good progress against all these actions. 
In particular, we have agreed a framework for succession planning 
for the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, over the 
next few years. The first step of this plan is the appointment of 
a new female Non-Executive Director and we hope to make an 
announcement on this shortly. 
During the year, a detailed internal evaluation of Board performance was 
again carried out by the Company Secretary. The review sought to improve 
the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and of individual Directors. 
We have worked hard at Marshalls to ensure that the Board culture is open 
and transparent and that there are no restrictions or pressures on Board 
members which result in views or opinions not being expressed. Against 
this background I believe an internal review works well.
I am pleased to report that no areas of material concern were highlighted 
from this evaluation though, of course, a number of new areas were 
identified for improvement during 2015. These include allowing time 
for deeper debate on strategic issues, increasing focus on dynamic risk 
reporting, identifying particular business areas for closer review and 
increasing opportunities for Non-Executive Directors to meet senior 
management below Board level through an extended programme of site 
visits. I also plan to increase my own contact with shareholders to ensure 
that shareholder views continue to be fully understood. I will report on 
progress against these initiatives next year.
I am also pleased that, under our Remuneration Policy, management 
receives a large proportion of their remuneration in shares which must 
be retained for up to 5 years. This ensures a strong alignment between 
the interests of management and our shareholders.
Board changes
The transition of the senior executive team is now complete. Martyn 
Coffey is firmly established as Chief Executive. Jack Clarke became 
Group Finance Director on 1 October 2014, joining us from AMEC plc, 
where he was Executive Vice President and Director of Change 
Management. He is already making a difference and bringing a more 
operationally focused approach to the finance function.
Both David Sarti and Ian Burrell retired from the Board during the year. 
I would like to thank them both for their significant contributions to 
Marshalls over many years and for their support in ensuring a smooth 
transition to the new team.
People
Marshalls’ success is critically dependent on the positive interaction 
between the Group’s employees, customers, suppliers and other 
stakeholders. We have an outstanding group of employees and, 
on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of them for their 
hard work, professionalism, and ongoing support and commitment 
to Marshalls.
Outlook
2015 has started well. We are planning for good further progress in 
2015 against a background of continuing favourable market conditions.
Andrew Allner
Chairman
