 4 W&DB Annual Report 2003
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT | SKILLTHOUGHTVISION
The Company has achieved another year
of strong performance.We have made
excellent progress in implementing our
strategic plans and have demonstrated
good performance in terms of like-for-like
sales, margins, return on capital and free
cash flow.
Leslie Porter, Company Secretary, meeting with 
David Thompson, Chairman.
Results
Turnover of £490.5m was £15.1m below
last year as a consequence of transferring
managed pubs to lease and completing
the rationalisation of WDB Brands.
Underlying operating margins increased 
by 0.5% to 22.1% and return on capital
was maintained at 12.6%. Against a
background of intense competition and
price discounting, this strong performance
contributed to a 10.1% increase in
underlying earnings per share to 68.9p
per share.
Dividend
The Board proposes a final dividend of
21.2p per share, which brings the total net
dividend for the year to 32.1p per share.
The year-on-year increase in dividend is
10.1%, reflecting our underlying growth in
earnings per share and our recognition
that cash dividends are an important part
of the overall return achieved by investors.
Our approach to dividends has been
consistent over a 30 year period.
The final dividend, if approved, will be 
paid on 30 January 2004 to those
shareholders on the register at the close
of business on 5 January 2004.
People
The continuing improvement in the
performance of the Company is due 
to the enthusiasm, commitment and
ability of our employees.The management
style within the business continues to
develop as one in which decision-making
is delegated and spread throughout the
business, and our people are responding
with vigour. I would like to thank all of
them for the tremendous contributions
they are making. In particular, it is a matter
of record that last year saw the highest
ever number of long service awards, 45,
and this highlights the way we seek to
combine experience with new ideas. W&DB Annual Report 2003    5
David Thompson presenting Diane Sinclair
with her 25-year long service award.
Outlook
We believe that this good result is the
product of a clear, well thought-through
strategy, correctly positioned businesses
and strong operational management.
Our strategy, which is set out in detail in
the Chief Executive’s review, includes a
continuing focus on freehold community
pubs and high quality ale brands. Ours is 
a cash-generative business, enabling us 
to operate an ongoing share buy-back
programme.We bought back and
cancelled 1.2m shares at a cost of £7.5m
in this financial year and a further 0.7m
shares at a cost of £4.7m since the year
end.We have now returned £138m to
shareholders in the last two years.
The market remains competitive and is
mature.These factors are likely to ensure
that consolidation of pubs, breweries and
beer brands will continue.We believe 
that consumer trends and the need to
comply with more stringent legislation
will, in the long run, favour good quality,
well-positioned businesses such as ours.
In the meantime, we are encouraged 
by the robustness of our trading platform,
as demonstrated by these results.
David Thompson Chairman
