 02
Max Petroleum Plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Chairman’s Statement
Max Petroleum Plc made 
appreciable progress 
toward achieving  
our goal of realising  
the value of our 
considerable 
hydrocarbon 
prospectivity  
in the Republic  
of Kazakhstan.  03
Max Petroleum Plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Dear Shareholder,
 
During the year ended 31 March 2008, Max 
Petroleum Plc made appreciable progress toward 
achieving our goal of realising the value of our  
considerable hydrocarbon prospectivity in the 
Republic of Kazakhstan. Despite the turbulence of the 
prior year, the Board of Directors remain extremely 
optimistic that our 3.4 million acres within the Pre-
Caspian basin will yield pervasive opportunities for 
Max Petroleum’s shareholders.
Toward that end, in July 2007, Management 
embarked on an extensive four crew seismic 
programme to fully evaluate the technical merits of 
our Block A, Block E and Astrakhanskiy assets and 
accelerated our efforts to effect strategic alliances to 
exploit our resource base. Commercial production 
and marketing capabilities of the Zhana Makat field 
were enhanced during the latest fiscal year, as well, 
with proceeds from oil sales, combined with Max’s 
$100 million credit facility entered into in June 2007, 
providing significant funding for our exploration and 
development programme. 
The story of Max started with a vision: to convert  
what we believe to be one of the most prospective 
independent portfolios of oil and gas assets in  
the world into substantial tangible shareholder 
value. That vision cannot manifest itself without  
an experienced, qualified team and effective 
leadership. The experience, technical sagacity, and 
operational and management skills Mark Johnson 
has demonstrated as CEO since joining Max last 
January have assured the Board that he is the right 
person to lead our competent team and that Max 
can and will successfully execute our strategic plan 
within a framework of financial discipline and 
resource optimisation. 
We would like to thank our shareholders for their 
continued support of the Group and its vision.  
We can assure you that the Board and all of our 
employees, with Mark Johnson at the helm,  
are focused and dedicated to bringing this  
vision to reality. 
James A Jeffs
Non-executive Chairman
