 06
Max Petroleum Plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
My first order of business 
upon joining Max was  
to establish a realistic  
and achievable  
three-year  
strategic plan. 07
Max Petroleum Plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Dear Shareholder,
 
Since joining Max Petroleum as Chief Executive 
Officer in January 2008, I have spent considerable 
time assessing the Group’s assets, operations, and 
personnel to ensure we have the appropriate 
structure and resources to convert Max Petroleum’s 
significant oil and gas exploration potential into real, 
tangible value for our shareholders. The breadth 
and quality of our assets continues to impress me.
My first order of business was to establish a realistic 
and achievable three-year strategic plan capable of 
unlocking the value inherent in our Blocks and set 
objectives, milestones and performance metrics to 
measure our progress. This plan was unanimously 
approved by our Board of Directors and presented to 
the market in April 2008. 
The future success of our business strategy involves 
achieving three short-term goals:
1.  Shore up Max’s near-term liquidity to fund current 
operations;
2.  Strengthen our technical and operational 
capabilities to optimally high grade our prospects 
and leads, capitalising on our processed 3D and 
2D seismic data; and 
3.  Enter into a joint venture or other farmout 
arrangement to share in the risk and funding of 
our long-term exploration drilling and appraisal 
programme. 
I am pleased to report that we have made good 
progress in all three areas. 
We have enhanced Max’s liquidity position through 
facility and process improvements in Zhana Makat, 
thereby increasing the reliability of production and 
revenues from the field, as well as the expansion of 
the borrowing base of our Macquarie debt facility  
by $30 million, secured in the midst of an extremely 
tight global credit environment. More consistent 
production coupled with higher commodity prices 
allowed Max to generate net positive cash flows from 
operations after capital expenditures during July 
2008, a significant milestone for the Group. 
We have also boosted the technical expertise 
needed to fully exploit the information and insight 
acquired from our ongoing 2D and 3D seismic 
evaluation of Blocks A&E and Astrakhanksiy. We 
have established an exceptional exploration team in 
Houston, hiring four highly experienced oil and gas 
finders to augment our Almaty based personnel. The 
expanded technical group allows us to accelerate 
the analysis and assessment of our geological and 
geophysical data to quickly generate and rank our 
drillable exploration prospects based on our 
growing library of processed 3D seismic data. We 
believe this approach will substantially increase the 
probability of success of Max’s exploration drilling 
programme over the next several years. 
Although a portion of our future capital requirements 
will be funded from ongoing production and the 
Macquarie credit facility, up to $200 million of further 
funding will be required to complete our entire 
three-year exploration and appraisal programme. 
Our focus is to meet these additional capital needs 
through the farmout of minority interests in one or 
both of our Kazakh assets. In this regard, we initiated 
a formal farmout process in June, offering up to 25% 
of the Blocks A&E licence and 50% of the 
Astrakhanskiy licence for third-party participation. 
The farmout effort is proceeding with many 
interested companies reviewing our data with an 
objective of concluding a joint venture agreement, 
subject to government approval, by the end of the 
third quarter or early fourth quarter 2008.
My experience from 22 years at Texaco and 
ChevronTexaco has enabled me to quickly establish 
new initiatives and strengthen existing policies and 
practices, focusing on operational excellence, 
business processes and value optimisation. I am 
pleased to say that our personnel have embraced 
these changes and I consider our employees to be 
world class professionals who will provide the Group 
with a competitive advantage moving forward. 
As CEO, I can assure you that the Board and 
Management are focused on directing Max 
Petroleum’s strategy and activities to continuously 
increase shareholder value. My near-term goal is to 
enhance our balance sheet enabling us to execute 
our business strategy in a rapid and prudent manner. 
Looking towards the future I will be seeking to 
capitalise on our core assets and extensive knowledge 
of Kazakhstan to create more opportunities to further 
enhance the value of the Group.
Mark L Johnson 
Chief Executive Officer  
