 9
Chairman’s Statement
Introduction 
This financial year has seen a significant change in the Group structure
as expressed in the results for the financial year to March 2005. 
The major element of change is primarily a result of the acquisition of
Redworth in October 2004 and in particular the impact of its principal
trading subsidiary Music Box Leisure.
The consideration for the acquisition comprised an initial payment of
£1 7.15m in cash and loan notes with the balance satisfied by the issue
of 100,000,000 ordinary shares. Further consideration has been made
on a performance related basis satisfied by the issue of 130,276,185
ordinary shares. 
In trading terms Music Box Leisure made a significant impact on the
Group’s trading during the last six months of the financial year. I am
also pleased to report that we have also seen a strong performance
from Legacy, our North American operation, which has continued to
show consistent growth. 
Financials 
Results for the 12 months ending 31st March 2005, include a 
six-month contribution from Redworth and its subsidiaries. This period
includes the strongest trading months in a seasonal business. 
The Group’s activities have generated a 216% increase in turnover to
£49.8m (2004: £15.8m) with a 126% increase in profit before tax,
interest, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items to £4.3m (2004:
£1.9m). Acquisitions contributed £35.4m to turnover and £4.1m to
profit before tax, interest and goodwill amortisation. Normalized
earnings per share are 0.90p (2004: 0.68p). In view of this
performance the Board is recommending a maiden dividend of 0.012
pence per share for the second half-year trading period. 
The rapidly maturing DVD market in the UK has resulted in a number
of changes to market influences and pricing that affected our budget
priced DVD offering, originally acquired with Hollywood DVD. This had
a significant impact on the second half results and has caused the
Directors to consider the ongoing value of the existing budget DVD
business. The Directors have concluded that a provision for the
goodwill impairment of £2.1m is required against the carrying value of
goodwill which arose from the acquisition of Hollywood DVD. The
Group is actively seeking alternative DVD product opportunities to
strengthen its DVD portfolio. 
As part of its commitment to driving distribution synergies across the
enlarged Group, the Board has completed a strategic review and
restructuring. As a result, an exercise is underway to move all UK
distribution through the Group’s distribution centre in Lancashire and
the Board expects to see benefits from this in the second half of 
this year. 
The Board
I am pleased to report that the team of Non Executive Directors was
strengthened during the course of the year with the appointment of
Nick Fisher on the 1st December 2004. Nick is joint Chief Executive of
International Greetings plc, a leading AIM listed company and brings
with him a wealth of experience in both corporate and related industry
sectors. His experience is complementary to that of Roger Putnam,
Chairman of Ford of Britain.
The Board would like to thank all employees for their contribution
during the last twelve months in assisting the management to achieve
these results.
Summary 
The Group has begun the new financial year actively looking at
opportunities to enhance performance further following the
completion of the acquisition of Redworth, and its trading subsidiary
Music Box Leisure Limited. A strategic review has identified 
operational savings in several areas and opportunities that exist
through the increased exploitation of product and the expansion of 
the customer base. 
While the retail sector in general terms is experiencing some
difficulties, the Directors believe the sector in which the 
Group operates can continue to provide growth opportunities for
existing products.
The current policy is to address aggressively areas identified in the
strategic review as a prime objective. The Group will, however,
continue to examine any acquisition opportunities that could further
enhance the development of the Group.
John French
Chairman, July 2005
