 13
Chief Executive’s Report
Introduction 
The year to 31st March 05 has been the most important year in the
Group’s history. The acquisition of Redworth in October with its trading
subsidiaries, principally Music Box Leisure, represents a step change in
the Group’s business, both in terms of size and scale and in the scope
of its operations. The acquisition, which underlines the policy of buy
and build, gives the Group a more vertically integrated operation, which
allows our publishing operations to work with the distribution
operations, in effect managing products from concept to retail store.
Trading Operation
The Group’s trading operations can now broadly be divided into
publishing and distribution. In the publishing division, the principal
trading companies have been Going For A Song and New Sound,
whose product ranges are audio based, Hollywood DVD, video
product based and Legacy Entertainment in Canada, whose
predominant product offering is audio. Each of these operations
currently only sells proprietary published goods and in the majority of
cases these are sold to distributors rather than to retailers. The
distribution operations, principally Music Box Leisure, specialise in
sales direct to retail and their current product offering, which is audio
and visual products, are largely sourced from third parties. 
I am pleased to report that the Music Box Leisure business has
performed well and whilst the contribution to Group in this financial
year has been six months, Music Box Leisure has shown growth in
that period. Throughout the year we have also seen satisfactory
growth in the audio publishing operations, with North America being
particularly strong. The Group’s DVD publishing business however,
has experienced a difficult year. The DVD market in the UK has
matured rapidly, resulting in reduced retail prices of premium and
mid-priced products which are published by the major companies.
This has put pressure on the Group’s budget film offering. As
reported by the Chairman, the Board has taken the view that the
goodwill value carried in respect of the Hollywood acquisition should
be reviewed and this has resulted in a provision for impairment. The
DVD publishing operation is now seeking alternative product
offerings, which will include licensed products from major companies
and more niche offerings including music, special interest subjects
and children’s products. In each of these areas the company is
actively considering opportunities. 
Strategy
The Redworth acquisition raised a number of challenges. I am pleased
to report that management have risen to these and programs which
include integration of systems, sales, distribution and other related
areas are well underway. In terms of management, the principle
directors of Redworth have joined the PLC board.
The completion of the buyout periods on each of the Group’s previous
acquisitions; Hollywood, New Sound and Redworth, has raised the
opportunity for further integration. During the first quarter of the new
financial year, the Group has reorganised the UK publishing
subsidiaries into two principle companies. Air Music & Media Sales will
be responsible for the sales of all group proprietary goods. The
integrated sales force will offer all of the company’s own label goods,
including Going For A Song, New Sound, Hollywood DVD and the Air
label. Air Music & Media Copyrights will be responsible for all Group
copyright activities; both exploitation of the Group’s own material and
licences from third parties. The principal activities of the copyright
company will be the creation and provision of new products for each
of the group’s audio and visual labels and most importantly, the
provision of goods for the Music Box Leisure retail customer base. On
this latter point, copyrights will seek to acquire a far broader range of
licensed rights than previously published by the Group and whilst
remaining firmly risk averse, will nonetheless result in a significantly
broader portfolio of proprietary goods with secured distribution
through Music Box Leisure.
Mark Frey
Chief Executive, 
July 2005
