 Central Europe growth potential
with retailer development
Customer service, innovation and
speed to market
Roll-out of winning formulas
Long-term relationships
UK and Continental Europe leadership
Manufacturing scale, efficiency 
and expertise
Market and consumer understanding
Leverage of McBride 
manufacturing capabilities
Private Label leadership
Niche brand development
Contract manufacturing
Household and personal care focus
Grow sales
Grow profits
Reduced debt
Increase shareholder value
08
Private Label household 
and personal care products
Chief Executive’ s review continued
“These results demonstrate the continuing strength of
McBride. The market remains competitive but sales gains in
Continental Europe, and continuing operational improvements
across the Group have improved profitability . Cash flow
remains strong and a sudstantial reduction in debt has been
achieved. Since the year end, trading has been satisfactory .”
Strategy
In Continental Europe, McBride’ s focus is 
on growth in all countries especially France 
and Spain. 
We entered Spain eight years ago through
acquisition and it is now our fourth largest
market with significant growth opportunities.
Similarly McBride entered The Netherlands
through acquisition however it is a more
developed retail market and growth is 
therefore more difficult.
In France massive progress has been made
following a series of small acquisitions to
expand the product offer . Significant
development of the relationships with major
French retailers has underpinned this growth.
McBride has been a significant supplier to a
number of German retailers outside their
domestic market for many years. Indeed two
German retailers are already in the Group’ s 
T op T en customers. Germany is the most 
recent market McBride has started to develop; 
a sales office was established three years ago
that is now winning contracts to supply the
German retailers in their domestic market.
In the growing McBride CE market our reported
sales were £272.9 million up almost 8.6% in
Sterling with sales in local currency up 2.5%
year-on-year . Sales in Spain and Germany
showed impressive 37.4% and 36.0% growth
in local currency respectively while The
Netherlands improved 6.1% and France our
second largest market grew by 5.2%.
Intersilesia’ s sales were impacted by the 
economic downturn in Poland and yet 
ended marginally up on the previous year 
in local currency . The main consequences of 
the weak Zloty were inflation on raw materials 
and imported products, the latter stimulated 
a 23% increase in local production volume. 
By European standards Intersilesia has a state- 
of-the-art facility and is undergoing value
engineering of its cost base to further 
improve its competitive position. McBride 
has made excellent progress in both the
Hungarian and the Czech Republics with 
sales up 50% and 140% respectively . From 
the small 1999 acquisition in Poland followed
by substantial expansion of production and
warehousing McBride now has a solid
foundation from which it can expand its 
Central European business.
International – Rest of World
McBride International has responsibility for all
markets outside the EU with the majority of its
sales in Central & Eastern Europe, the core of
which is Intersilesia in Poland. Rest of world
covers all markets outside Europe. Against the
backdrop of a strong Euro and the impact of
the Middle East crisis, sales declined by 14%.
Operations
The Group is the most comprehensively
positioned European supplier not only of
household and personal care products but of
any Private Label product category sold through
Grocers. This strength is becoming increasingly
recognised by our customers especially given
our reputation for Private Label development
and expertise in manufacture and supply .
Underpinning our commercial strategies is 
a network of 16 factories, in seven countries
including the APL joint venture in the UK.
During the year the closure of the Industrial 
and Institutional products factory on the
Estaimpuis site in Belgium was announced. 
This non-core activity comprised two major
customers who are in the process of 
re-sourcing their requirements with full 
co-operation between us. All financial
consequences of this small closure have 
been reflected in these results. 
Production sites focus on product technologies
and we therefore have 2 laundry powder units,
2 aerosol units, 2 personal care units and 10
household liquids units. The number of
household liquids sites is a direct consequence
of the need to avoid the transport costs of
shipping products over large distances.
During the last 10 years £186.6 million has
been invested in capital in addition to various
acquisitions. Our plants are well invested and
acheive world class standards. Investment in
SAP across the Group is enabling the business
to focus on operational performance. This
received further impetus during the year as 
we improved measurement and benchmarking
matrices based on Group wide common
nomenclature and definitions. This programme
focused on capacity utilisation, productivity ,
efficiency of mixing, filling and blow moulding
and will continue to strengthen the Group’ s 
cost effectiveness into the future.
09
McBride plc
The market leaders
McBride’ s scale of business in terms of 
volume, complexity , tighter lead times and
speed of change can now be managed on an
integrated basis through SAP . The benefits from
investing in information systems are coming
through and will continue to flow going forward.
Business Development
One of the main areas of business development
identified last year was the opportunity
presented by several of our niche brands. The
results have been very encouraging with Surcare
sales up 24%, UK household brands overall
were up 9% and UK personal care branded
sales were up 10%, McBride International
undertook a major review of its brand offer
including a number of relaunches.
The second area, contract manufacturing has
been slower to develop but progress has been
made in introducing McBride capabilities to a
number of new customers with good prospects
for longer-term volume. 
Purchasing
The Group Purchasing Director and his team
have been able to improve our competitiveness
by building relationships and tendering business
where opportunities were identified. A joint
technical/purchasing project to identify areas of
Group synergies was started during the year .
Planning
Last year we reported that a Group of over 
fifty of our most senior managers attended a
workshop to review our markets, customers
and competitors in the context of our own
competencies, strengths and weaknesses. 
This strategic planning review has formed 
the foundation of our business plan which 
set the basis for the Group’ s recovery and
growth parameters.
We are now in the second year of the plan,
having achieved a number of key goals in terms
of sales growth outside the UK, improvement in
profits, working capital, cash flow and net debt
reduction. These improvements have been
realised through organic growth and internal
cost control. The next phase of our planning
process is to investigate the opportunities
available to McBride to further accelerate
growth. This will involve the examination of
expansion into new geographic markets and 
in-filling product ranges whether organically 
or by acquisition.
Social and Ethical Policy
It has always been the Group’ s practice to set
standards of performance and behaviour in the
way we run the business. This goes beyond
financial and operational aspects into how we
behave with those in whose communities we
operate and how we treat each other as
colleagues. This year we have brought together
all our best practices and formalised them as
policy . It is an area where we will endeavour to
improve our awareness and performance with,
we believe, positive commercial effects.
Many of our sites gain external recognition 
with Burnley and Intersilesia in Poland collecting
outside awards in these important areas. Our
approach is based upon the belief that “a safe
and clean working environment is a precursor
to efficiency” .
Health, Safety and Environment
The Group has well conceived and 
documented policies and procedures across 
the diverse businesses that operate in seven
countries with differing legal frameworks. In the
UK RoSPA is used to audit safety management,
and Investor in People is used to ensure our
approach to training and development is of
good professional standard. 
Sustainable Development
Not just a new in-phrase but a way of 
doing business is how we see Sustainable
Development. In all areas, whether it is vehicle
loads and fuel efficiency , energy utilisation,
packaging design/recyclability , production 
waste reduction, product design in the form 
of concentrated formulations or predetermined
dosage formats or many other areas, we see
Sustainable Development as the best approach
to cost effectiveness. This approach safeguards
both the future of the business and the
environment in which we operate.
As Board members of A.I.S.E. (The European
Detergents Industry Association), the Group
fully supports the Detergent Industry Charter on
Sustainable Development. 10
Private Label household 
and personal care products
Finance Director’ s report
Significant focus remains on not only improving profitability ,
but also cash generation. This is to reduce the level of debt
to achieve a more optimum capital structure and to improve
the rate of return on capital.
Pre-tax profit for the full year was £26.2 million,
a substantial improvement over the previous
year of £18.0 million before the write-off of
goodwill in the joint venture. This improvement
was backed by strong cash flows that reduced
debt by £33.8 million to £61.1 million. These
factors contributed to raise the pre-tax return 
on average capital employed from 15.0% 
to 19.6%.
Financial management reporting and
accounting has been harmonised throughout
the Group as well as strengthening the
measurement and comparability of operating
efficiency , asset utilisation and working capital.
This has been facilitated by the Group wide
information systems.
Between June 2002 and June 2003, the 
Euro appreciated against Sterling by nearly 7%. 
As over half the Group’ s activities are based in
Euro’ s, this currency movement has impacted
on the consolidated results for June 2003.
However , since the Group’ s UK operations 
have some direct costs that are denominated 
in Euro’ s, the overall effect of the stronger Euro
on the Group’ s operating profit and post-tax
profit is not significant. 
Overall, the Group experienced a second year 
of relatively stable raw material prices. 
Turnover grew by 4.3% to £505 million, 
aided by strong organic growth in the
Continental European business and a currency
translation effect from the strengthened Euro.
Improving operating efficiency lifted margins,
before goodwill amortisation, to 6.2% from
5.4% last year . 
Group operating profit therefore rose to £29.7
million (£24.8 million) whilst Group operating
profit before depreciation and goodwill
amortisation (EBITDA) increased to £53.0 million
from £44.7 million. The charge for depreciation
rose from £18.6 million to £21.9 million
reflecting work on reviewing the asset base. 
The Group’ s net interest charge for the year 
was £3.6 million, an improvement from last
year (2002 – £4.4 million) due to lower average
borrowings and some modest reductions in
interest rates. Group interest cover was 8.3x
compared to 5.7x last year . 
The taxation charge, under FRS19 that requires
a full provision for deferred tax, of £7.9 million
for the year equates to an effective rate of 
29% (2002 – 26%) based upon profits before
goodwill amortisation. This rate is still below 
the mainstream rate of tax in the countries 
in which the Group operates due to the
recognition of previously written off of ACT .
However , the effective tax rate is expected to
normalise over the next 2 years as this ACT
benefit is exhausted. 
During the year , the corporate structure 
of the Group was reorganised to maximise
utilisation of ACT and thereby reducing 
future taxation payments.
Capital expenditure, which in the full year
amounted to £8.5 million (2002 – £10.5
million) was incurred mainly on efficiency
improvement projects, new capacity and the
continued rollout of the SAP information
systems. This lower level of expenditure partly
results from the high level of previous year’ s
expenditure combined with a drive to increase
existing asset utilisation and efficiency across the
Group. It is expected that the level of capital
expenditure over the next few years will be
above the current year’ s level, close to the
average of the last three years.
Net debt improved significantly throughout the
year , falling from £94.9 million at June 2002 to
£61.1 million at the year-end despite adverse
exchange movements of £(4.0) million. This
strong performance was aided by significant
improvements in working capital and lower
capital expenditure. Cash flow per share, before
dividend payments, joint venture settlement and
exchange movements amounted to 23.4p
(2002 – 12.2p). 
During the year , the Group moved towards 
a more efficient capital structure to minimise 
the cost of capital. Gearing, interest cover and 
Net Debt/ EBITDA ratios all improved to 78%
(2002 – 147%), 8.3x (2002 – 5.7x) and 1.15
(2002 – 2.12) respectively . This directly impacted
the Group by reducing the cost of borrowing. 
The Group’ s pre-tax return on average capital
employed was 19.6%, up from 15.0% last 
year due to better margins and greater 
asset turnover . 
Treasury
The Group’ s debt requirement is financed
through a combination of two medium-term
committed bank facilities and a number of
uncommitted short-term facilities.
The committed facilities secure the Group’ s
medium-term funding requirements.
11
McBride plc
The market leaders
They comprise firstly , an £85 million amortising
revolving credit facility with an original 5-year
term, expiring in September 2007, with a
margin that fluctuates depending on financial
performance. The second facility is a structured
finance product for £20 million based on
purchasing receivables. This has a 30-month
committed term, expiring February 2005, 
and is on a fully non-recourse basis. The cash
generation of the Group means that the
continuing need for this facility will be 
reviewed as it approaches maturity . 
All Group operating companies have
uncommitted short-term facilities available in
their local currencies. These facilities, typically
with low margins, are to manage short-term
working capital and ensure that cash balances 
are not created locally when the Group as a
whole is in debt. 
All borrowings and foreign exchange activities
are undertaken as a result of underlying trade
transactions with approved financial
instruments. Currency exposures arising from
trade transactions are covered as they arise. No
transactions of a purely speculative nature are
undertaken.
Interest Rate Risk
The Group is financed by a combination of
retained earnings, receivables financing and
bank debt. The bank debt is denominated in
various currencies but mainly in Sterling and
Euros. Due to the healthy current and forecast
financial ratios of the Group combined with a
relatively flat yield curve on the swap market,
bank debt is held on a floating rate basis.
However , interest rate Costless Collars have
been implemented that will protect the Group
against any significant rise in interest rates over
the next 2 years. 
Foreign exchange risk on overseas borrowings is
monitored monthly and is substantially hedged
against the assets held in the same currencies. 
Aerosol Products Limited (APL)
Following the significant operational and
financial restructuring in June 2002, APL has
traded profitably and been cash generative
throughout the current year . APL ’ s cash
generation enabled a reduction in interest
bearing working capital and therefore interest
charges. APL remains a joint venture, held in the
Group Accounts at a net liability of £(1.7) million.
Systems
The Group’ s main financial and operating
systems, based on SAP applications, have
continued to be rolled out throughout the
Group. All the main operating units are now
running on these applications and there has
been little business interference during
migrations. The SAP systems cover most aspects
of manufacturing, stock, delivery and financial
control and are an integral part of the business.
They are an essential part of ensuring that
increasing demands, both financially and
operationally can be met.
Pension Accounting – FRS 17
Last year , due to rising costs and uncertainty
surrounding investment returns, the UK closed
its defined benefit pension scheme to new
employees; it was replaced by a defined
contribution scheme. The defined benefit
scheme currently has 579 active members, 
78 pensioners and 412 deferred members.
During the year , due to the increasing costs of
providing for pensions, the scheme changed 
the benefits that active members will be entitled
to receive on future service. Under FRS 17 rules,
the valuation of the scheme at the year-end
showed gross assets amounted to £32.9 million
(2002 – £35.6 million) and the liabilities to
£47.7 million (2002 – £42.3 million) leaving 
a shortfall of £10.4 million after taxation 
(2002 – £4.7 million) after taxation. An actuarial
valuation is currently underway; any material
shortfall will need to be made up over the
remaining service lives of the active members;
this is currently 11 years. 
Pension provision for our overseas colleagues 
is generally provided by their respective
governments out of general taxation. 
As such, the Group has no significant residual
forward exposure.
Earnings and Dividends
The weighted average number of shares 
in issue during the year was 177,639,197.
Earnings per share are 10.2p, an increase 
of 46% over last year’ s 7.0p (excluding last 
year’ s goodwill write off).
The recommended final year dividend, payable
on 28 November 2003, has been declared at
2.1p representing an increase of 50% over last
year . This final dividend together with the
interim dividend brings the full year to 2.9p, an
increase of 38% over last year’ s 2.1p.
Miles W Roberts
Finance Director
0
5
10
15
20
02/03 98/99 99/00 00/01 01/02
19.6
15.0
12.1
19.0
17.9
0
10
20
30
02/03 98/99 99/00 00/01 01/02
26.2
18.0
8.4
21.8
17.9
02/03 98/99 99/00 00/01 01/02
0
10
20
30
40
50
41.5
21.6
5.3
9.6
17.1
ROACE %
operating profit/opening + closing (net assets + 
net debt excluding joint venture)
Pre-tax profit (£m)
before taking £15.8 million write off of goodwill 
in the joint venture in the 2002 results
Cash generation (£m)
before dividend payments, acquisitions 
and refinancing the joint venture
02/03 98/99 99/00 00/01 01/02
3.2
2.9
2.7
3.0
3.9
0
1
2
3
4
5
Asset turnover
turnover/opening + closing (net assets + net debt 
excluding joint venture) 1 Lord Sheppard of Didgemere, KCVO, Kt
Chairman 
(aged 70)
Lord Sheppard has been non-executive
Chairman of the Company since the Buy-In in
1993 and from 1987 to 1996 he was Chairman
of Grand Metropolitan plc. He is currently
Chairman of GB Railways plc, OneClickHr plc
and the Unipart Group of Companies and
Chancellor of Middlesex University . He is also
President of London First, and Vice-President 
of Business in the Community .
2 Mike Handley 
Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman 
(aged 56)
Mike Handley led the management Buy-In of
McBride in 1993 and was previously Managing
Director of several divisions at RHM plc and a
divisional director of Cadbury Schweppes plc
prior to which he had held senior management
positions with Ciba Geigy (UK) Ltd and Reckitt 
& Colman. In 1998 he was appointed non-
executive Chairman of Macphie of Glenbervie
Ltd in Scotland and during 2001 was appointed
to the board of the A.I.S.E. (The European
Detergents Industry Association).
3 Miles W Roberts 
Group Finance Director
(aged 39)
Miles Roberts joined McBride in January 2002
as Group Finance Director from Costain Group
plc where he was also the Group Finance
Director . Previously he was the Finance 
Director of Three Valleys Water plc.
6 Christine A Bogdanowicz-Bindert 
Non-Executive Director
(aged 52)
Christine Bogdanowicz-Bindert joined 
the Board as a non-executive Director on 
1 September 2003. Christine is an experienced
financier born in Belgium, with joint Belgian/
Polish nationality . She has worked throughout
Europe and the USA for the last 30 years firstly
with the International Monetary Fund and 
then, until 1990, with Lehman Brothers Inc 
as a senior Vice President. From 1990 to 2003,
she has been the President of Bindert GmbH 
in Germany which specialises in
strategic/corporate planning issues for
multinationals in Poland and has held a 
number of non-executive directorships in 
Poland and the US.
7Robert A Lee 
Non-Executive Director
(aged 56)
Robert Lee joined the Board as a non-executive
Director on 1 September 2003. Robert has over
35 years experience in the petrochemical 
and allied industries. He was employed by 
Dow Chemicals for 28 years in a variety of
international senior management positions. 
In 1997, he joined a new management team
established at Octel Corp, enabling its successful
demerger to become an independent publicly
quoted petroleum additive company , listed on
the NYSE. 
12
Private Label household 
and personal care products
13
McBride plc
The market leaders
1234567
LEADING LEADING
                  THE MARKET THE MARKET
LEADING
         THE MARKET
4 Henri I T alerman
Non-Executive Director
(aged 47)
Henri T alerman has been a non-executive
Director of the company since May 1993. 
He was a founding partner of WR Capital
Partners, LLC. Until October 2000, he was a
Managing Director of Lehman Brothers Inc,
managing Lehman’ s principal investments. 
He is a member of several Boards of Directors 
of private companies in the US. 
5 Colin D Smith
Non-Executive Director 
(aged 56)
Colin Smith joined the Board as a non-executive
Director in April 2002. He was a main board
Director of Safeway plc for 15 years, the last 
6 years as Chief Executive and before that,
Finance Director . Colin is also Chairman of a
number of private companies. Mike Handley
August 2003
Agility flows through every level of this business – from the Boardroom,where
strategic decisions are communicated via short reporting lines for rapid implementation,
to the factory floor where production lines are switched between products easily,quickly
and cheaply. All on a scale that helps us meet any virtually customer or market need,
from the UK to eastern Europe.
centum qui decidit,inter perfectos ponetur
quotus arroget scriptor abhinc veteres
Si meliora vina poemata reddit,este inter
scire velim,chartis pretium quidem
Managing powerful manufacturing and distribution resources across a continent,
within a dynamic,fast-moving company culture,is enabling McBride to stretch
its lead as Europe’s leading Private Label specialist.It’s our ability to meet our
customers’ demands across Europe that makes McBride the preferred partner
of so many major retailers.
ACHIEVING
ACHIEVING
FLEXIBLE SCALE
FLEXIBLE SCALE
14
Private Label household 
and personal care products
15
McBride plc
The market leaders
Organising for increased production
A major reorganisation of our plastic bottle 
blow-moulding capabilities in Continental Europe
following a review of local demand and capacity
across sites and countries has enabled us to bring 
in-house the production of an additional 30 million
bottles in the first year alone.
Of equal importance, by realigning these 
resources closer to our customers, we are gaining
significant speed and efficiency benefits in meeting
their requirements.
This exercise, which involved moving between sites
four of our 80 Blow Moulding machines currently
installed throughout Continental Europe, has already
delivered significant cost-reductions with more in
years to come.
A story of achieving more for less.
Dishwash capacity expansion
McBride has been quick to invest in increased
manufacturing capacity for dishwash tablets, a 
sector whose value is growing by 11% each year .
McBride's latest investment in a state-of-the-art
additional tablet press to be installed at Barrow
continues our commitment to our customers in 
a growth market. This will also allow us to
accommodate any excess demand from our 
European manufacturing site at Moyaux.
Just as important, it gives us the flexibility to respond
more quickly than ever before to special customer
requirements for promotions and other activities,
helping them grow the share of their Private 
Label products.
Creating, developing, manufacturing, distributing and managing bespoke
portfolios of Private Label household and personal care products for many
retailers across a wide range of national markets poses an extraordinary
array of strategic and logistical challenges that very few organisations 
are able to rise to.
McBride does this by integrating it’ s considerable manufacturing
capabilities with an organisational agility that aims to meet customer
demand, regardless of time-scale or geography .
It’ s what we call ‘flexible scale’ .
Flexible scale means we have the levels of installed capacity that allow
production to be switched speedily , accurately and cost-effectively with
minimum downtime. It means we have the resources in place to meet
demand, immediately and efficiently in our core European markets. 
It means our lines of communication and information systems are geared
not just to respond to customer needs, but to anticipate and meet them
before they become urgent.
Our ability to provide flexible scale has not simply evolved – it has been
carefully planned and is under constant review and refinement as markets
change and new, better ways of operating and organising emerge.
It is one of the most important resources within McBride. It is what allows
our customers to trust us, to rely upon us to make a truly business-critical
contribution to their success, to achieve the innovation that keeps us
ahead of our competition and to play a responsible, wealth-generating
role in the communities where we operate.
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
UK
Germany
Spain
France
Belgium
Netherlands
Italy
2001
2002
Private Label share of the 
European dishwasher products market 
% volume share
