 McBride plc Annual Report 2004 08
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Capitalising on market
opportunities.
Developing new channels such 
as the convenience sector , growing
margins with value-added ranges
and converting niche products to
mass-market status are all factors
that ensure our continued market
leadership in the UK. In Continental
Europe, we are gaining strongly
from the retailer concentration and
growth in the discount sector that
are driving Private Label forward 
in many countries, with significant
scope for further penetration. 
In Central and Eastern Europe we
are excellently positioned to help
retailers reach the 75 million new
consumers of the combined EU
accession and candidate nations. 
SALES TO EUROPE AND THE REST 
OF THE WORLD ACCOUNTED FOR 58% 
OF McBRIDE’S TURNOVER
58% 
Mike Handley
Chief Executive
It is pleasing to report another year of growth in sales, profits and cash
generation, which has enabled us to reduce the Group’ s net debt by 
almost 50% to £31.4 million.
The focus on exploiting the growth of Private Label in the recently 
enlarged EU market, maintaining our Private Label leadership in the UK, 
and improving our operational cost base have all contributed to this 
excellent performance.
These results are especially impressive against the background of intense
retail competition and price focus in all markets, whether in Continental
Europe’ s reaction to Hard Discount growth or in the UK market’ s reaction 
to the Morrison take-over of Safeway . 
By achieving our objectives of improving shareholder value through profit
growth and reduced external debt, the financial robustness of the Group 
has been reinforced.
Sales
Overall sales for the Group were £501.3 million compared with 
£486.8 million for the previous period which have been restated in line 
with FRS 5 – Application Note G. Sales growth of 3.0% was driven by 
our Continental European business, which reported local sales of over 
a400 million for the first time.
The strong performance of our Continental European business now means
that sales outside the UK account for 58% of Group turnover . This growth
was underpinned once again by a good performance in France assisted by
strong growth from our Italian business.
McBride is also expanding its sales in both the Nordic countries and 
the large German Private Label market, where it has a sales office. It is 
also pleasing that the investments made in our manufacturing facility in
Poland since it was acquired in 1998, combined with our existing facilities
throughout the Group, have improved McBride’ s ability to compete
effectively in terms of quality and price into these markets, and the 
accession countries of Central Europe. McBride plc Annual Report 2004 09
RECORD SALES OUTSIDE 
THE UK
£290.8 
MILLION
UK sales by destination at £210.5 million were broadly in line with last year’ s
£212.1 million reflecting real volume growth offset by selling price deflation.
Further analysis of sales compared with last year is given in the Finance
Director’ s Report.
Profit 
At £35.1 million, the Group’ s operating profit before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items was up 12.9%. The Group’ s continuing focus on
variable and fixed costs led to improved operational effectiveness and asset
utilisation enabling McBride to counteract adverse pressures on selling prices.
The record sales of our European business also underpinned its operating
profit to £16.5 million (excluding £3.3 million exceptional item) from 
£12.9 million last year an increase of 27.9%. 
Cash
One of the most significant achievements of the Group’ s performance since
December 2000 has been cash generation and the dramatic lowering of net
debt. This has been achieved by focus on cash management and teamwork
throughout the business. Interest charges have been reduced significantly by
improved treasury management and the lower level of debt, which stood at
£31.4 million at June 2004 compared with £61.1 million in June 2003.
Capital expenditure increased to £17.3 million (2003 – £10.6 million) with
investments following the closure of Estaimpuis Industrial and Institutional
factory and its conversion to a household facility , the closure of the Breda
factory in The Netherlands and expenditure at Ieper and Estaimpuis to
facilitate the transfer of its production, plus tablet capacity expansion in
Barrow and Moyaux.
Private Label
Private Label increased its market share in six of the seven core European
markets according to The PLMA ’ s (Private Label Manufacturers Association)
2004 International Private Label Y earbook. The UK is still the largest market
in Europe for Private Label with over 40% volume share across all grocery
categories. A separate review of the Nordic markets showed Private Label
gains in all countries. 
The key factors that are influencing Private Label growth include retailer
concentration and expansion across borders, the growth of the hard
discount format and the expansion of the full service hypermarket across
Europe. The new accession countries of Central and Eastern Europe, Poland,
Czech Republic and Hungary are among the fastest growing Private Label
markets according to AC Nielsen.
The enlargement of the EU on 1 May 2004 added 75 million new
consumers in the accession countries to the existing 378 million consumers
providing exciting opportunities for McBride to support Private Label growth.
McBride regards this enlarged market as an exciting opportunity to support
its major customers as they develop and expand their retail estates.
In the more mature UK market consumers are still attracted to the quality
and value proposition of Private Label. Volume sales and market share across
many categories continues to grow although price competitiveness among
retailers and its deflationary effect has caused some loss of value share in
many sectors. 
Overall Private Label remains a growth sector of the European retail 
grocery market and those categories like household and personal care 
have even more development potential in the longer term because the
Private Label share of these categories lags behind the all commodity 
share in the vast majority of countries. 
Getting more from existing assets
By concentrating on increasing the productivity of our
manufacturing plants, production lines and employees, 
we are growing our turnover without the need for major
investment. There is still potential for further gains, 
but the closure of our Breda site in The Netherlands and 
the transfer of capacity to other sites demonstrates the
effectiveness to date of our drive for increased efficiency.
NET DEBT REDUCED OVER THE
YEAR TO £31.4 MILLION
£31 .4 MILLION McBride plc Annual Report 2004 10
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CONTINUED
UK
The recently restructured UK retail grocery market continues to be very
competitive as the top 4 retailers compete for market share. As a number 
of major retailers have entered and are developing the growing convenience
sector , the availability of their Private Label ranges is expanding to more
consumers. Whilst the household Private Label share lags behind the all
commodity share, its volume share reached 34% in May 2004 which 
means UK consumers buy the Private Label option in 1 in every 3 purchases. 
The shelf price deflation referred to above, however , resulted in a slight 
value share reduction from 23.6% to 23.2%.
Both laundry products and machine dish wash enjoyed between 1 and 
2% volume growth and in the latter category Private Label now accounts 
for more than half of all sales in the UK.
In laundry and household cleaner new product development, McBride
continues to lead the field; successfully launching a new laundry sachet
concept with unique tamper evident packaging, fruit extract based cleaners
as well as a new dishwashing spray incorporating McBride’ s powerblaster
formulation.
Keeping pace with the changing retail environment our Clean ‘n Fresh 
range of household and laundry products was successfully launched into 
the independent convenience sector resulting in an 11.3% sales uplift in 
the year .
Another first for McBride UK, was the use of national TV advertising for 
the Surcare Sensitive range of laundry products. In the UK 75% of women
believe they have sensitive skin and Surcare is the strongest brand in this
niche sector . Sales of Surcare in 2003-04 were up 25% on the previous 
year and the range was extended into personal care.
The UK personal care business had another successful year growing sales
and profits in the face of continuing competitive pressure. Initiatives with
both Private Label and brand developments including the extension of
Surcare resulted in a number of contract gains for the business.
APL
Last year we reported that the joint venture had returned to profit. 
I am pleased to confirm that the restructuring of the business that was
introduced in the first half of 2003 continues to deliver benefits. APL
generated £1.6 million at the operating profit level up 60% versus last 
year (McBride share £0.8 million, £0.5 million in 2003).
APL again was able to win both retail and contract volume, which resulted 
in sales of £33.0 million (McBride’ s share £16.5 million compared with 
£15.1 million last year). This is a tremendous result for the joint venture
reflecting the effort and teamwork in rebuilding customer confidence in 
the business. We are therefore pleased to announce that as of 6 September
2004 McBride purchased all the equity shareholdings of our joint venture
partners in APL. We look forward to the benefits of APL being 
a full member of the McBride Group. 
Continental Europe
Our Continental European (McBride CE) sales are centred on the core
Western European members of the EU primarily France, Spain, Italy , 
The Netherlands, Belgium and Germany as well as Poland. The headquarters
are based in Belgium on the French border and the production sites are in
France, Belgium, Spain and Italy .
The core markets display all the same competitive features as the UK 
with the added dimension of a much more developed hard discount sector . 
The dual dynamic of hard discount store openings and multiple retail
consolidation has put in place all the key factors that facilitate Private Label
growth i.e. big retailers, simplified fascias, centralised sourcing, distribution
and range control. Against this background, all commodity Private Label and
in particular household and personal care continue to increase market share.
In almost every European country Private Label increased its market share 
in the last 12 months according to research by AC Nielsen on behalf of 
the PLMA.
The CE team in McBride continues to work assiduously on broadening 
and deepening its relationships with Continental Europe’ s leading retailers.
Working together to improve the Private Label offering in household and
personal care products throughout Europe continues to be mutually
beneficial for our retail customers and McBride. An essential part of
customer focus is our commitment to maintaining its competitive cost
structure and, as a result, the underperforming production units in 
Belgium and The Netherlands were closed in the period. 
McBride CE sales reached a record Euro 400 million in the year for the 
first time with our Belgian factory at Ieper reporting record sales of over 
Euro 100 million driven by the buoyancy of the Private Label market in 
Europe. Overall reported sales by destination in Continental Europe were 
£286.7 million (£271.0 million) up 5.8%, with sales in local currency up 1.7%.
Intersilesia’ s retail sales were up 0.9% in local currency on the previous 
year resulting from the combination of a highly competitive Polish market
compensated by the successful development of our Polish factory as the
manufacturing hub for Central Europe. The company is successfully gaining
business not only in adjacent Central European markets but also in
Scandinavia and Baltic countries. 
Our steady progress in building a sustainable business platform in Hungary
and the Czech Republic continues with sales growth of 33% in Hungary 
and 17% in the Czech Republic. 
£6.7 MILLION
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE INCREASED 
BY £6.7 MILLION OVER THE YEAR
INCREASED
PRODUCTION
NEW PRODUCTION LINES COMPLETED
AT ESTAIMPIUS SATISFYING
INCREASED PRIVATE LABEL DEMAND McBride plc Annual Report 2004 11
International – Rest of World
McBride International has responsibility for all markets outside the pre 
May 2004 EU territories with the majority of its sales in Central & Eastern
Europe, the core of which is Intersilesia in Poland. Rest of World covers all
markets outside Europe. As part of our development strategy for Central &
Eastern Europe, McBride is at an advanced stage of opening a sales office 
in Moscow having recently established a local subsidiary McBride Russia Ltd
to build on our existing position in the growing Russian market.
Recent successes for Private Label contracts have been gained in both
Denmark and Norway with further business from our Polish factory assisting
the development in the region. 
Against the backdrop of a strong Euro and Sterling it is pleasing to report
that McBride International were still able to deliver an 10.8% increase in sales.
Operations
A key element which sets McBride apart from its peer group Private Label
competitors is the quality and scale of its manufacturing asset base
throughout Europe comprising a network of 15 factories, in 6 countries
including the APL joint venture in the UK. This strength is becoming
increasingly recognised by our customers especially given our reputation 
for Private Label development, speed of response and expertise in supply
chain and manufacturing.
During the year the closure of our Dutch factory was announced. The closure
of the factory and transfer of production to more cost-effective sites within
the Group was achieved without disruption to the service and products
delivered to our customers. 
As reported in last year’ s Annual Report, the Industrial and Institutional
products factory on the Estaimpuis site in Belgium was closed during the
year and a modern household cleaner and toilet care production facility has
been created in the existing buildings of the old factory . This major project
was excellently and professionally managed on time and within budget.
Production sites are focussed on product technologies and we therefore
have 2 laundry powder factories, 2 aerosol factories, 2 personal care
factories and 9 household liquids factories. The number of household 
liquids sites is a direct consequence of the need to avoid the transport 
costs of shipping products over large distances. 
This year £17.3 million of capital was invested in the business compared 
to £10.6 million in 2002-03. The increase was in part driven by the need for
new capacity in areas such as PET bottles in Europe and autodishwashing
tablets but a certain proportion related to capacity additions required to
enable the transfer of production from Breda to other factories in 
the Group.
The Group is continuing to identify areas for improving operational
performance. Our continuing focus on asset utilisation, line productivity and
efficiency through inter-site comparisons and benchmarks enables us to
continue to attack our cost base. The Group believes it will be able to further
improve throughput providing opportunities to reduce the asset base of the
company whilst at all times ensuring that customer service levels are not
compromised.
Our information systems and collaborative working with customers and
suppliers has enabled stock levels to be lowered despite increases in sales
turnover and volume whilst maintaining customer service.
Business Development
The niche and minor brand portfolio of McBride aimed at selective retail
sectors has been an important area of development for the Group alongside
our core business of retailer Private Labels. 
Last year the Surcare niche brand range of laundry and cleaner products 
was extended with new varieties and the introduction of a personal care
range resulting in 36% sales growth.
Our Clean ‘n Fresh range was extensively redesigned to meet the growing
UK convenience sector and resulted in an 11% sales growth over the year .
The Hard Discount retailers are a large Private Label sector requiring 
cost-effective suppliers, and this has been the subject of a detailed review 
by the business. Recent contracts have been won and continuing efforts are
underway to expand our sales to the Hard Discount sector in our home
markets as well as in Germany . 
McBride is still an active exporter of products from Western Europe into
Central and Eastern Europe. During the year , however , powder and cream
cleaner production equipment was transferred to Poland for local production
and reduced distribution and complexity . It is planned to continue this trend
as sales grow in the region.
Contract manufacturing volume was impacted by the exit from the 
Industrial and Institutional business in Belgium. A number of new 
customer contracts have been gained within McBride core business 
sectors of household and personal care products providing good 
prospects for longer term volume opportunities.
VALUE FOR 
MONEY
OF 3000 RESPONDENTS IN THE UK, 65%
SAY THAT PRIVATE LABEL HOUSEHOLD
PRODUCTS OFFERED BETTER VALUE
THAN THE LEADING BRANDS
INNOVATION
WE INTRODUCED A NEW LAUNDRY
SACHET CONCEPT, FRUIT-BASED
CLEANERS TOGETHER WITH A NEW 
DISHWASHING SPRAY McBride plc Annual Report 2004 12
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CONTINUED
Purchasing
2003-04 has been a year of uncertainty in the feedstock markets driven
primarily by the uncertainties in the Middle East and Venezuela and the
resulting upward trend in oil prices, which has impacted a number of
downstream raw materials. The Group Purchasing Director and his team
have had a challenging but successful year minimising the impact of these
price movements on McBride’ s input costs. 
Measures to mitigate raw material cost pressures include the joint
technical/purchasing project reported last year . In addition other factors 
that have helped withstand selling price deflation and input price include
purchasing longer on certain materials, a weaker US Dollar , weaknesses in
other commodities and improvements in manufacturing efficiencies. 
Planning
We are now in the third year of the Group Strategic plan, having 
achieved a number of key goals in terms of sales growth outside the UK,
and improvements in profit, working capital, cash flow and net debt
reduction across the Group. These improvements have been realised
through organic growth and internal cost control. 
A full review and update of the markets in which we operate and our key
performance indicators (KPI’ s) which underpin the plan was undertaken
during the year . 
T wo of the main outputs from the review included the decision to close 
the Breda factory in The Netherlands and also the decision to establish a
sales office in Russia in line with our plans to identify new growth markets. 
The next phase of our planning process will investigate the opportunities
available to the company to further accelerate growth through the
examination of expansion into new geographic markets and in-filling
product ranges whether organically or by acquisition.
Social & Ethical Policy
It has always been the Group’ s practice to set standards of performance and
behaviour in the way we run the business. This goes beyond financial and
operational aspects into how we behave with those in whose communities
we operate and how we treat each other as colleagues. This year we have
brought together all our best practices and formalised them as policy . This is
an area where we will endeavour to improve our awareness and performance
with, we believe, positive commercial effects. Our exhaustive benchmarking
against best practice in the area of Corporate Governance has led us to
update several of our policies and procedures as well as the design of a
formal “whistleblowing” policy to enable employees to speak in confidence
about issues of real concern that may affect the performance of the business.
Sustainable development
McBride has produced its first Corporate Sustainability Report which will 
be issued separately to this year’ s Annual Report, building on the Corporate
Social Responsibility section in past Annual Reports and includes a more
detailed description of our policies and activities in these vital areas. Our
approach to managing the business is focussed on clear and measurable
KPI’ s, most of which benefit from a common sense approach to the drivers
of sustainable development.
For instance increasing yields and reducing waste, more efficient use of
energy , light weight packaging, controlled dosage formats e.g. tablets and
sachets, elimination of half full vehicles etc, are all ways of reducing variable
costs which simultaneously are less harmful to the environment. Even lower
overheads and stock require fewer buildings resulting in less heating and
lighting energy consumption.
At McBride we practice sustainable development by being business efficient
thereby running a good, efficient, effective and profitable business.
We are committed across Europe to the aims and requirements of the
A.I.S.E. Charter on Sustainable Development, in whose creation we have
been closely involved. The Charter requires participating companies to
develop and implement policies, procedures, indicators and output covering
the management of economic, social and environmental activities.
As Board members of A.I.S.E. (The European Detergents Industry Association),
the Group fully supports the Detergent Industry Charter on Sustainable
Development.
Health Safety and Environment
The Group’ s documented policies and procedures across the diverse
businesses that operate in six countries with differing legal frameworks are
well conceived. In the UK RoSPA is used to audit safety management, and
we are pleased to report improved ratings at all UK sites assessed during
2003-04 with some sites reaching outstanding performance. Investors in
People is used to ensure our approach to training and development is of
good professional standard. This year’ s upward trend in lost time incidents
(L TI’ s) reverses the 4 prior years’ continuous reduction. Investigations into 
the causes of this disappointing performance is part of our continuous
improvement programme.
SALES
GROWTH
SURCARE SALES INCREASED 36% 
OVER 2003
SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT
McBRIDE HAS PRODUCED ITS FIRST
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
WHICH WILL BE ISSUED SEPARATELY
TO THIS YEAR’S ANNUAL REPORT
