 McBride plc Annual Report 2004 06
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
The programme of actions
introduced by the executives
continues to produce
improvements in performance. 
In addition to cash generation 
the focus has been on improving
labour efficiency , raw material
usage, distribution and asset
utilisation resulting in net debt
being reduced by nearly 50%. 
Further initiatives are currently
being introduced to maintain
momentum.
Lord Sheppard
Chairman
Key Strategic Strengths
The Group has continued to build on the excellent progress achieved 
since 2001 delivering further sales and profit growth. This is especially
pleasing in a year when the industry has experienced more than its usual
competitive pressures. 
Our commitment to innovative solutions across all facets of the business 
has again ensured success. The strength of our business emanates from the
consistency and relevance of our strategy: focus on Private Label household
and personal care, innovate, support and develop with our major customers,
emphasis on customer service and maintaining industry-leading management
skills and experience. All elements of the strategy have contributed to this
year’ s strong performance.
Continuing Improvement in Performance
The programme of actions introduced by the executives continues to
produce improvements in performance. In addition to cash generation 
the focus has been on improving labour efficiency , raw material usage,
distribution and asset utilisation resulting in net debt being reduced by 
nearly 50%. 
Further initiatives are currently being introduced to maintain momentum. 
Dividend Policy
The Group is committed to making progressive, sustainable increases to 
the dividend paid to shareholders, taking account of the medium-term
requirements of the business. In view of the very strong performance 
during the year , the low level of debt and our confidence in the future, 
we are recommending a final dividend of 2.8 pence per share to be paid 
on 26 November 2004. The total dividend will be 4.0 pence per share, 
in line with the pre close announcement, a 38% increase over last year .
CASH
DRIVEN
NET DEBT REDUCED BY 
ALMOST 50%
4.0 PENCE
DIVIDEND UP 38% 
OVER THE YEAR McBride plc Annual Report 2004 07
Innovation in product development
We use our technological, manufacturing and marketing
expertise to react rapidly to new marketplace developments
and provide retailers with Private Label alternatives that 
cost-effectively match the performance of globally branded
products. This helps them strengthen consumer trust in their
brands to grow share, margins and loyalty in emerging and
mature markets across Europe. The last year has seen many
such innovations in many countries, sharing expertise across
the Group for mutual gain.
Share Repurchase
In addition to the increased dividend, the Board is seeking approval from
Shareholders to purchase up to 10% of the share capital of the Company .
Board
The company has undertaken a thorough review of all aspects of Corporate
Governance including the recent changes to the UK Combined Code. 
The membership of the Board and Board Committees, together with their
terms of reference have been comprehensively reviewed and updated 
where necessary . The contractual notice period for all executive directors 
has been amended to one year . All non-executives will be subject to annual
re-election by shareholders at the AGM. The executive directors will be
subject to re-election at two yearly intervals.
Aerosol Products Limited (APL)
The aerosol joint venture, based at Hull, once again has improved its
performance.
Last year , we reported that customer confidence was at higher levels, and
new business gained. This momentum continued during the year , resulting 
in further sales and profit growth for the joint venture. Since the year-end, 
as a result of this improved performance, McBride has purchased all the
equity interests of our joint venture partners. This investment is expected 
to be earnings enhancing in the current year .
Customer Relations
Being a supplier of Private Label means that we are directly affected by the
economic and competitive forces experienced by retailers. We are only able
to succeed by being more responsive to and, when necessary , proactive
with, our retail customers than other suppliers. We use our technical,
manufacturing and marketing expertise to react rapidly to new marketplace
developments and provide retailers with Private Label alternatives that cost
effectively match the performance of globally branded products. This helps
our retail customers strengthen consumer trust in their brands to grow share,
margins and loyalty in emerging and mature markets across Europe. The last
year has seen many such innovations in many countries, sharing expertise
across the Group for mutual gain.
Workforce
The current trading environment means that the business has to ensure that
it operates at the lowest cost of supply consistent with effective competitive
performance. A number of difficult decisions had to be taken by the business
during the year to maintain our competitive edge.
It is therefore with pride and gratitude that I give recognition to the
outstanding commitment of our staff during the year for their contribution
towards a third year of excellent results.
Current T rading
These results again demonstrate the continuing strength of McBride. Whilst
market conditions remain competitive, sales gains in Continental Europe 
and continuing operational improvements across the Group have further
improved profitability . Cash flow is strong and a substantial reduction in debt
has again been achieved. Since the year-end trading has been satisfactory .
McBRIDE ACQUIRES EQUITY
SHAREHOLDING AND EXPECTS 
RETURN IN FIRST YEAR
APL
