 Strategic Report
Chief executive’s review
Delivering on 
our promises 
For us, 2014 was a year of 
strong results, accelerated growth 
and above all, delivering on our 
promises as we continue to focus 
on excelling as the UK’s leading 
neighbourhood retailer.
Executing our strategy
We delivered everything we set out to do in 2014. 
We continued to grow our network of neighbourhood 
convenience stores, from 707 to 799 at the period end. 
We converted a further 45 of our newsagents to food 
and wine convenience stores. We acquired 60 new stores. 
We converted a further 102 of our convenience stores to 
our premium format, offering a broader range of products 
and services. This brings the total number to 489, well over 
half of our convenience stores.
Hitting our financial targets
Our results were broadly in line with our targets and 
expectations, and represented a significant improvement 
on 2013. We had good growth in sales – total revenue 
increased by 6.1% and like-for-like sales increased by 
0.7%
1
. We increased profits, too. Operating profit before 
exceptional items increased by 13.2% to £25.5m 
(2013: £22.5m). Adjusted earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation increased to £37.3m 
(2013: £34.2m). We also controlled our costs – our 
administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue 
came down to 24.2% (2013: 24.5%).
Furthermore we reduced net debt by £48.8m while at the 
same time increasing net capital expenditure to £19.3m 
compared to £10.6m in 2013.
The results are covered in more detail in the financial 
review on pages 17 to 19.
Accelerating our growth in convenience post-IPO
Our full listing on the London Stock Exchange in February 
2014 helped to free us from the constraints of high 
leverage and focus more resource on accelerating our 
growth. We can now reinvest more in the business, notably 
to acquire new convenience stores and convert existing 
newsagents into convenience stores, increasing revenue 
and profit and driving shareholder returns. Following our 
IPO we doubled our level of acquisitions while maintaining 
the same level of quality. This was a key aspect of our 
commitment to higher, faster growth.
James Lancaster
Chief executive
1. See definition on page 16
06 McColl's Retail Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Giving our customers greater choice
We continue to extend the range of products we offer 
to our customers. In 2014 for example, we introduced 
our premium convenience range of products into a 
further 102 of our convenience stores, enabling us to 
give customers a wider choice of chilled foods, groceries  
and fresh fruit and vegetables, as well as a stronger value 
proposition. Many of the new products are permanently 
priced and promoted, so our customers know where they 
stand. Extending the range and adapting it to local 
neighbourhoods, in turn, helps us drive increased sales.  
In 2014, our average basket spend increased from £4.73  
to £4.97. 
Consolidating our leadership in post offices
Our 451 post offices make us the biggest operator across 
the UK. Through the year we played a key role in the Post 
Office’s modernisation programme. We signed a deal to 
convert 191 of our smaller post offices to their local format 
and actually succeeded in converting 192 by the end of 
the period. We also converted 85 of our larger post offices 
to their main format, and acquired 26 new local post 
offices. As a result of this huge programme, many of our 
customers now have a modernised neighbourhood post 
office that stays open longer for them – in fact for all of the 
hours that their local store is open. In some instances this 
has doubled the post office opening hours. What’s more, 
we are able to reap the benefits of integrating post offices 
more closely into our stores.
Launching our loyalty scheme
We also successfully launched a dedicated Plus card 
loyalty scheme for our customers – a great way to thank 
them for shopping with us and strengthen our bond with 
them. We are encouraged by the number of customers 
who have already registered with the scheme and who 
now regularly use their card in store to access the great 
offers available to them.
Total revenue growth
 2014 6.1% 
 2013 2.9% 
 2012 5.0% 
6.1%
2.9% 2013
Number of convenience stores
799
+13.0% 
2013 707
McColl's Retail Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 07
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
Chief executive’s review continued
Offering a great range of neighbourhood services
We are committed to offering our customers an ever-
greater range of neighbourhood services. We deliver 
newspapers to around 130,000 homes, for example. 
We believe no other business makes as many paper 
deliveries, or creates as many opportunities for young 
people to earn some well-deserved pocket money. 
Moreover, with our commitment to offering local people 
great career opportunities, that first job delivering papers 
can turn into a part-time or permanent position in store 
and onwards and upwards to management. 
Alongside paper deliveries, we provide many other 
neighbourhood services such as lottery tickets, bill 
payment, cash machines and internet collection and 
return points – all just a short walk from where our 
customers live. 
Leveraging our strong newsagent base
Our market leading network of Martin’s and RS McColl’s 
newsagents continues to perform well. They’re not only 
an established profitable and cash generative part of 
our business, they also provide an excellent springboard 
for our growth in neighbourhood convenience through 
our programme of converting existing newsagents into 
convenience stores. If you want to create a great 
neighbourhood convenience store, there are few 
better starts than already owning a great newsagent.
Maximising the potential of our network of stores
We focus on motivating colleagues and maximising 
the potential of our fully managed network of stores. 
One of the ways we do this is through close control and 
regular communication. A great example is the weekly 
Dave’s Diaries sent by our chief operating officer Dave 
Thomas to all the store managers, giving updates on 
progress and targets, highlighting key achievements, 
name checking outstanding contributors – helping 
to keep all our managers informed and encouraged. 
We also enhance control and efficiency through our 
investment in information technology.
Strong central control is balanced by an equally 
strong sense of local ownership among our store 
colleagues. They’re committed to their store, to their 
local customers and to their neighbourhood. It’s a 
commitment that comes from being genuinely focused 
on neighbourhood convenience and dedicated to 
giving customers a great friendly service. Moreover, 
area managers have a say in taking local decisions 
on price and range, further reinforcing our ability not 
only to react and adapt quickly to local demand but 
also to take the lead in local markets.
In the neighbourhood 
for over 20 years
We’ve been focusing 
on providing the UK’s 
neighbourhoods with a 
great local store for over 
twenty years. In that time, 
we have gained a wealth 
of experience, growing not 
only the number of stores 
in our network but also the 
range and quality of what 
we offer through these 
stores. Along the way 
we have built up a loyal 
customer base and strong 
roots in local communities 
up and down the country.
From evening meals 
to morning coffees
We continue to look for 
more ways to give our 
customers the products 
and services they want 
from their favourite 
neighbourhood store. 
One great example is our 
ongoing development of 
our fresh and food-to-go 
offers – from a great 
evening meal to pick up on 
your way home to a coffee 
and croissant to set you up 
for the morning. 
08 McColl's Retail Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Making a positive difference to our neighbourhoods
I wanted to highlight in particular the great work across 
the group that we do for the charity Cardiac Risk in the 
Young (CRY). This is a cause close to my heart as I lost my 
21-year old son Robert to sudden cardiac death in 2007, 
and I am extremely pleased and proud of the outstanding 
contributions of our colleagues and customers.
For the second year running, colleagues and customers 
across the group took part in fundraising events and 
made in-store donations over Halloween – raising over 
£170,000 for the TreatCRY initiative this year, and over 
£340,000 since we launched the campaign in 2013.
Looking ahead
The market continues to be challenging and competitive, 
but full of opportunities too. We will continue to grow 
our convenience store business as we head towards 
achieving our target of 1,000 stores by the end of 2016. 
At the same time we will continue to look for ways to 
expand and extend the range of products and services 
we provide to our customers in neighbourhoods up and 
down the country.
We’ve come a long way from our newsagent roots. 
We’re a world away from just being the place to go in 
the neighbourhood for your papers and milk. Increasingly 
we believe we are becoming the neighbourhood’s 
favourite store for just about every daily essential – from an 
evening meal to a morning coffee, from picking up your 
online purchases to posting a letter or paying a bill. 
I am extremely proud of the business I have led for 
over 40 years. We are a strong player in the world of 
convenience and I am determined to ensure that we 
continue to fulfil our strategy to grow and our desire to 
excel at the heart of the UK’s neighbourhoods.
James Lancaster
Chief executive
Average basket spend
£4.97
2013 £4.73 
Colleague numbers
 18 , 685
2013 18,764 
Our key strengths
• Focus on neighbourhood stores
• Highly experienced 
management team
• 18,685 colleagues dedicated 
to high levels of friendly 
customer service
• National scale and brand 
awareness across the UK
• Wide range of products and 
services for local customers
• Direct management and 
development of fully 
managed stores
• Investment in information 
systems and ongoing 
improvements
We aim to excel 
in our world of 
neighbourhood 
convenience 
McColl's Retail Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 09
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
