 Strategic Report
Chairman’s statement
Proud to  
be the UK’s 
neighbourhood store 
I am delighted in my first annual 
statement as chairman to report on a 
successful period with strong growth, 
good progress against our strategic 
objectives and a successful IPO. 
Continuing to grow and succeed
Continued growth and strong financial performance  
were key parts of the story in 2014. So too was our ongoing 
commitment to extend the range of products and services 
we offer our customers in order to meet our aim to cater 
for their everyday needs with a fantastic friendly store on 
their doorstep. 
Listing on the main market
On 28 February 2014 we successfully listed on the 
London Stock Exchange’s main market. We were the first 
retail float of the year. Executing the full listing so quickly 
and effectively involved a great deal of intense work, 
particularly from our chief financial officer Jonathan Miller 
and his team.
The IPO was a key step forward for us as we continue 
to focus on growing our business of neighbourhood 
convenience stores across the UK. It enabled us to pay 
off relatively expensive debt, freeing up funds to fuel and 
accelerate our continued growth. It also enabled us to 
raise our profile and build our brand.
Making board changes
We made some significant changes to the board in 
2014. I was appointed as an independent non-executive 
director in February and took on the non-executive 
chairmanship in July, enabling James Lancaster to 
focus on running the business as chief executive. Having 
established and led the business for over 40 years, it was 
John Coleman
Chairman and  
non-executive director
02 McColl's Retail Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 the right time following the successful IPO for James to 
make this change and we look forward to his continued 
exceptional leadership. 
In July, Martyn Aguss resigned as chief operating 
officer and was replaced by Dave Thomas, a seamless 
promotion from within as Dave stepped up from his role 
as operations director. We look forward to Dave 
continuing to drive and improve our operations.
We also appointed two new independent non-executive 
directors in February, Sharon Brown and Georgina Harvey.
Corporate governance
We are committed to operating to high standards of 
corporate governance, as we believe that doing so will 
contribute to the delivery of long term shareholder value. 
In readiness for listing, we established audit, remuneration 
and nomination committees. 
Outstanding contributions
As we have grown we have continued to recruit and  
develop increasing numbers of people, many of them 
from the local neighbourhoods we serve. We now have over 
18,000 colleagues across the group and their tremendous 
commitment makes all the difference to our success. I’d like  
to thank all of them for their outstanding contributions.
Dividend
The business continues to generate strong cash returns with 
which we intend to fund capital investment and dividend 
payments to shareholders. The board recommends a final 
dividend of 6.8 pence per share, making a total dividend 
of 8.5 pence for the 9 month period post IPO. 
Living up to our responsibilities
We know that our leading role in the UK’s neighbourhoods 
comes with a great deal of responsibility and we focus on 
playing our part in ways that generate long term positive 
impact. As highlighted on pages 20-21 of this report, our 
responsible approach ranges from recruiting and 
developing thousands of local people to increasing our 
energy efficiency, and raising considerable funds for local 
good causes and charities.
Prospects
Although economic activity across the UK is showing 
some signs of improvement, we are planning for continued 
pressure on consumer spending and an increasingly 
competitive convenience sector. Following the IPO, we have 
been able to accelerate our strategy. As we continue to 
grow and consolidate our role as the UK’s neighbourhood 
store, I look forward to more years of great progress.
John Coleman
Chairman and non-executive director
Our brands
McColl’s Retail Group is the holding company 
for a portfolio of convenience store and 
newsagent brands.
Convenience Newsagents
McColl's Retail Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 03
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
