 02 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Mears at a glance
Mears is…
the market leader in 
two growth markets 
We maintain and improve homes as well as care for the 
people who live in them.
Every day we carry out more than 4,000 repairs to people’ s homes. 
We also deliver over 8 million hours of care to people in need. 
For these people, the things that matter most are that we keep 
our promises and deliver a quality service.
Repairs made every day
>4,000
We provide response and planned maintenance services to Local Authorities and 
other Registered Social Landlords to a portfolio of over 500,000 homes nationwide. 
Our work covers everything from small repairs, through to large scale refurbishment, 
including improving the energy efficiency of the homes that we serve.
We are leaders in terms of the number of repairs that we carry out but more importantly 
in the quality of service that we deliver and the innovative approach that we take 
to improving long term value for money through a partnering based approach.
We will continue to lead this sector through: 
  Further development of the Mears in-sourcing model to provide support to clients 
where a fully outsourced solution is not appropriate 
  Positioning Mears for emerging environmental opportunities utilising the British Gas 
partnership, increasing the energy efficiency of the social housing stock and 
addressing the fuel poverty agenda 
  Continued investment in middle management development to build for future 
business leaders 
 Building strength in Scotland and Wales 
Social Housing Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
54.6
08
60.1
09
100.4
10
28.7
07
Domiciliary Care revenue* (£m)
+67%
£100.4m
Hours of care delivered per annum
282.0
08
355.3
09
379.4
10
205.6
07 06
184.0
Social Housing revenue (£m)
+7%
£379.4m
 Read more
 ar10.mearsgroup.co.uk
>8,000,000
*  The Domiciliary Care division was established 
in 2007.
Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 03
We provide care to over 20,000 elderly and vulnerable people in their own homes, 
largely through contracts with Local Authorities. This is delivered through a highly 
skilled workforce of over 7,000 care workers. The service is personalised to the needs 
of individuals and includes support with mobility, hygiene, medication and simply 
staying connected to the communities in which that person lives.
Our unique approach towards integrating services for the home with care for the individual, 
combined with excellent operational management and increasingly efficient operational 
delivery, has established Mears as a leader in the sector.
We will continue to lead this sector through: 
 Continued focus on achieving service integration 
 Engaging with political stakeholders to influence political and policy direction 
  Continued investment in middle management development to build for future 
business leaders 
  Development of new Care IT platform generating opportunities for improved 
efficiencies for us and our clients
Domiciliary Care 04 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Chairman’s statement
Mears is…
leading the way
Summary of the year
Revenue
In a year of tremendous success in new contract bidding 
and an unprecedented number of new contract 
mobilisations, revenue increased by 11% to £523.9m. 
Order book
Our order book stands at £2.7 billion and the demand 
for our services continues to be very strong with a bid 
pipeline of £3.0 billion.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 4.85p 
per share making 6.75p per share for the year, an 
increase of 18%. 
Strong cash generation
Cash generated from operations as a proportion of 
the profit for the year (before tax and amortisation) 
amounted to 97% (2009: 109%), with a net debt 
position at the year end of £12.2m.
Bob Holt
Chairman
“ In this watershed year, we have consolidated our market 
leading position in our selected growth markets. We are 
well positioned commercially, operationally and financially 
to seek and capitalise on the many opportunities.”
 Read this Chairman’s Statement online
 ar10.mearsgroup.co.uk/chairmansstatement Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 05
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
It gives me great pleasure to announce another record year 
in both revenue and operating profit before amortisation 
and exceptional items. 15 years of uninterrupted growth 
in revenue, profits and cash generation speak for themselves. 
The Mears management team has worked together for 
many years focusing on providing first class, value-for-money 
customer service through our partnership ethos. This has 
been rewarded in the significant success we have achieved 
in new contract bidding and the number of exciting new 
opportunities that are within our sales pipeline.
Strong results and cash generation
In the year ended 31 December 2010, revenue increased 
by 11% to £523.9m and operating profit before amortisation 
and exceptional items rising by 27% to £31.3m. Revenues 
in Social Housing grew by 7% and in Domiciliary Care 
increased by 67%, bolstered by the acquisition of 
Supporta plc. In a year of tremendous success in new 
contract bidding and an unprecedented number of new 
contract mobilisations, the normalised diluted earnings 
per share still increased by 8.2% to 23.38p. The Board is 
recommending a final dividend of 4.85p per share 
making 6.75p per share for the year, an increase of 
18.4%. This is the second year that we have increased 
the dividend well ahead of earnings which reflects the 
Board’s confidence in the future opportunities in our 
growth markets. 
Of particular note is our strong cash generation. Cash 
generated from operations as a proportion of the profit 
for the year (before tax and amortisation) amounted to 
97% (2009: 109%), with a net debt position at the year 
end of £12.2m. During a particularly active period in terms 
of new contract mobilisations, where one might anticipate 
a higher requirement for cash, it is a credit to the strength 
of our working capital management that we can report 
such robustness.
Record levels of contracts
This was a watershed year for Mears Group, the market 
leader in social housing and domiciliary care. We have 
won a record level of contracts in both divisions and we 
completed the acquisition of Supporta, thus cementing 
our leading position in domiciliary care, a market that 
continues to grow as care in the home is by far the most 
affordable solution for Local Authorities. Throughout our 
history we have sought to build a profitable long term 
platform for growth based on the fundamentals of our 
business model and the key drivers which protect both 
our revenue flow and our ability to build continually for 
the long term. The social housing sector has recently seen 
a number of very public corporate failures. A contributing 
factor to these failures was and continues to be the 
practice of tendering at unsustainable prices which leads 
to consequences that benefit no one. When businesses 
fail, tenants are left without essential services and 
employees lose their jobs. Fortunately for all concerned, 
Mears’ long term partnership approach and financial and 
operational discipline means that it is well placed to ‘pick 
up the pieces’ from competitor failures.
It has always been fundamental to the success of our 
Social Housing division to ensure that we have the best 
operators in the sector. Until these recent corporate failures, 
I do not believe the quality of our operations received 
sufficient recognition. I am delighted to now be in 
a position whereby I feel the quality of the operational 
team within our Domiciliary Care division can now match 
that of their Social Housing colleagues. The quality of 
management acquired with Supporta has exceeded our 
expectations. Bernadette Walsh, now Managing Director 
of the combined Mears Care, shares the Mears ethos 
of customer service at the fore, whilst maintaining a strong 
commercial awareness which is crucial to sustained 
success in a low margin, blue collar service environment.
6.75p
total dividend
The Board is recommending 
a final dividend of 4.85p per 
share making 6.75p per share 
for the year, an increase 
of 18.4%
Success through partnerships
We have, in the current financial climate, an increased 
responsibility to continue to demonstrate how a long term 
partnering based approach, combined with greater services 
integration, is the most effective way to respond to the 
challenges faced by many Registered Social Landlords. 
  Turn to page 8 for more
