 06 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Chairman’s statement
continued
Long term partnerships
We have, in the current financial climate, an increased 
responsibility to continue to demonstrate how a long 
term partnering based approach, combined with greater 
services integration, is the most effective way to respond 
to the challenges faced by many Local Authorities, 
Housing Associations and Landlords. This has always 
been our approach and one which is even more relevant 
today. Following the results of HM Government’s 
Comprehensive Spending Review, we believe that our 
Social Housing operations will continue to benefit from 
increased outsourcing opportunities in the sector as 
Local Authorities look to achieve further efficiency gains, 
particularly in the supply of essential repair and 
maintenance services. The significant majority of our 
Social Housing revenues are non-discretionary spend 
for services which our clients have a legal obligation to 
provide. The changes to the system for housing benefit 
will, in our opinion, promote the migration away from 
private dwellings towards social housing. The changes to 
the housing finance system is providing Local Authorities 
with opportunities to invest further in their housing stock 
which can only be positive for the leading service providers. 
In addition, commitments have been made to build 
150,000 new Social Homes and to meet funding 
commitments on the Decent Homes Programme. 
We continue to be highly selective on our bidding 
approach looking to build and reinforce long term 
partnerships that will be of value to the residents 
and our clients.
Social Housing – market leadership
Our Social Housing division has long been recognised 
as a market leader in terms of operational performance 
and tenant satisfaction. Our differentiated offering is 
focussed on quality of service and tenant facing value 
for money services which clients are able to measure. 
In a period of austerity, where our clients are suffering 
budgetary constraints, it has been encouraging that 
we continue to find clients procuring services with 
a bias towards value and quality rather than purely 
on price considerations.
Domiciliary Care – well positioned
Mears is well placed to lead and consolidate the domiciliary 
care market which, in procurement terms, is several years 
behind the more developed social housing market. We can 
use the experience gained in social housing to enhance 
the market efficiencies in domiciliary care and share 
the benefits with our clients. T argeted acquisitions will 
be considered which broaden the diversity of Mears’ 
Domiciliary Care offering along the services supply chain 
and expand the range of services we are able to provide 
to people in their own homes. Mears’ clients will benefit 
from a national platform for the provision of an enhanced 
quality service.
Record order book – bid pipeline
Our order book stands at £2.7 billion and the demand 
for our services continues to be very strong with a bid 
pipeline of £3.0 billion. We are well placed to benefit 
from these trends and are confident that the demand 
and opportunity for our two growth markets will continue 
to be strong. We enter the current year with visibility of 
93% of the £625m consensus revenue forecast for 2011. 
We also have visibility of 80% of the £666m consensus 
revenue forecast for 2012.
Board changes
I was delighted to hand over the business in good health 
to David Miles in November 2010 who was appointed 
Chief Executive Officer (CEO). David has been instrumental 
in the growth and development of Mears from a regional 
provider of services with just five branches to the market 
leading Group that Mears is today. He has an unparalleled 
track record of delivering complex contracts and managing 
client relationships with his customer-centric philosophy. 
Over the past three years David has also built a strong 
operational team which will support him in his new role 
as CEO. David has been selected after a rigorous process 
of succession planning which has involved discussions 
with major shareholders and customers. The process 
has been underway internally for some time resulting 
in a stable and smooth transition. I will continue in my 
role of Chairman.
Mears has an on-going agenda of seeking to achieve high 
standards in corporate governance and early in 2010 
I was delighted to welcome to the Board Davida Marston 
and Rory Macnamara, who have brought to the team 
a wealth of experience from which the Group is benefiting. 
It would be remiss of me to ignore the tremendous 
contribution made to the Group by Reg Pomphrett who 
stepped down as a Director at the last Annual General 
Meeting (AGM). Reg, a former City regulator, ensured 
we were compliant on every aspect of public company 
life during his 14 year tenure. I am delighted that Reg has 
accepted the offer to continue to serve the company 
as Group Company Secretary. I would also highlight 
the huge contribution made to the Group by our Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director, Michael Macario. 
It is Michael’s intention to also step down at our next 
AGM in June 2011, at which time Peter Dicks will assume 
the role of Senior Independent Director.
£2.7bn
Our order book stands at 
£2.7 billion and the demand 
for our services continues to be 
very strong with a bid pipeline 
of £3.0 billion Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 07
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Outlook
The demand for our services continues to be very strong. 
Our two growth markets, social housing and domiciliary 
care, are robust defensive sectors where spend is largely 
non-discretionary. We continue to place great emphasis 
on winning good quality contracts that can provide clear 
and sustainable margins whilst at the same time providing 
a first class service and value offering for our clients.
We are mindful of the need to ensure that the public 
sector receives the best value for money. The public 
sector faces unprecedented fiscal challenges which 
are made all the more difficult by rising consumer 
expectations and an ageing population. Mears’ response 
is simple; to ensure efficiencies are realised wherever 
possible and working in partnership with our clients 
so that we continue to improve the quality of services 
delivered. The coalition Government has a difficult task 
to maintain public services whilst reducing a huge fiscal 
deficit. We anticipate challenges in 2011 and 2012 but 
through our commitment to working in partnership, 
the Group will remain well positioned.
Our focus for Social Housing will be to continue growing 
through further contract wins, expand the geographic 
coverage through targeted acquisitions of regional 
businesses with existing relationships with Registered 
Social Landlords and on-going innovation through further 
partnerships, such as that with British Gas. For Domiciliary 
Care, we will seek acquisitions that increase our ability 
to respond to the expected growing opportunities 
from NHS outsourcing and the increasing role General 
Practitioners will have in commissioning services locally.
We have a demonstrable track record of improving 
underdeveloped, inefficient markets for the benefit 
of customers, staff and investors. Lastly, we have the 
right management team in place to take our business 
forward and capitalise on the many opportunities in 
our growth markets.
I commend our employees for their commitment 
and energy throughout another significant year for 
the Group and I look forward to bringing you news 
of further successes during the coming year.
Bob Holt
bob.holt@mearsgroup.co.uk
Chairman
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
Our balanced scorecard approach ensures that the Group targets its resources 
around its customers, community, employees, operations and finance. Here 
are some of our financial and non-financial KPIs. For more information see 
the Directors’ Report on page 25.
British Gas partnership
This unique partnership brings funds, asset management 
planning and full implementation to our clients. The 
partnership addresses issues of carbon reduction and fuel 
poverty within Social Housing. We are well placed to help 
implement Government plans under its “Green Deal” 
commitment through the next decade. 
 Turn to page 8 for more
Social Housing revenue Profit cash conversion 
Domiciliary Care revenue
97%
+67%
to £379.4m
to £100.4m
(2009: 109%)
+8%
to 23.38p
+7%
Jobs completed on time 
91%
New contract bidding success 
rate (by value) 
40%
Normalised diluted earnings 
per share  08 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Mears is…
a strategic partner
“ Reforms of the rental system, and greater freedom for 
Local Authorities to retain and source their own funding, 
will enable them to generate more income.”
David Miles
Chief Executive Officer
 Read this Chief Executive Officer’s Review online
 ar10.mearsgroup.co.uk/chiefexecutiveofficersreview
Summary of the year
Social Housing
Awarded over £750m of new Social Housing contracts 
and entered into British Gas partnership to jointly 
address energy efficiency challenges. 
Domiciliary Care
Award of significant contracts, with an estimated value 
of £40m, reflects a trend towards awarding contracts to 
providers with an excellent quality and delivery reputation.
Completed acquisition and integration of Supporta plc. 
Main focus to develop new Care IT platform, generating 
opportunities for improved efficiencies for us and our clients.
Care and repair
T aking opportunities to provide integrated housing and 
care service, combining branches where possible. 
Completed acquisition of group of Anchor Housing 
Home Improvement Agencies, which play a vital role 
in keeping people in their own homes for longer.   
Other services
Our Mechanical and Electrical business continued 
to make profit on back of a resilient housing market 
in Docklands. Integrating services 
around the customer
Mears is committed to delivering 
domiciliary care seamlessly alongside 
housing repair and maintenance, 
providing a platform for change 
which will improve service provision, 
meet stakeholder needs and deliver 
substantial cost savings. 1.  Cross Keys Homes and Mears 
Peterborough Partnership
Cross Keys Homes (CKH) manages 10,000 homes 
in the City of Peterborough with a broad range 
of properties for single people, older people 
and families. 
In 2004, CKH awarded Mears its five-year Decent 
Homes contract for the renewal of kitchens, 
bathrooms and central heating systems. In 2008 
Mears secured a ten-year responsive repairs 
contract with the option to extend for five years.
Claire Higgins, CKH
“We have worked with Mears since the stock transfer from 
Peterborough City Council in 2004, initially on the Decent Homes 
contract. In 2007 we went out to tender for responsive repairs, 
maintenance and voids and, unusually at the time, added a full 
list of service requirements for housing including: 24/7 service 
and repairs for gas, LPG and oil heating systems and appliances; 
cyclical maintenance; major improvement works; electrical testing; 
and environmental works, including parking areas, paving, access 
and grounds maintenance.
“Putting all our eggs in one basket and awarding the contract to 
a single supplier could be perceived as a financial and/or service risk 
to the Association. In order to protect the interests of our residents 
and safeguard the integrity of CKH the contract is run on an ‘open 
book’ arrangement so there is complete cost transparency. Service 
quality and improvement data is benchmarked and in the last 
Housemark report, CKH was in the upper quartile of the group of 
35 organisations, which included ALMOs, Local Authorities and other 
Housing Associations, for all but two indicators. Our tenants showed 
the highest level of satisf action in our group.”
“ The partnership with Mears is a    
 Partnership Plus. Our repairs call centre  
 is based at Mears’ local office and, as   
 well as the day to day partnering on   
 the contract, we also partner in the   
 community and look for projects  
 that we can work on together  
 to support local people.”  Read more on this partnership
 ar10.mearsgroup.co.uk/crosskeyshomes
The partnership with Mears is a Partnership Plus. Our repairs call 
centre is based at Mears’ local office and, as well as the day to day 
partnering on the contract, we also partner in the community and look 
for projects that we can work on together to support local people.”
By creating a partnership model and giving Mears responsibility for 
complete service delivery, CKH has been able to reduce resources and 
significantly reduce maintenance costs. Within the first two years the 
partnership has delivered savings of £4m with responsive maintenance 
costs reduced from £6.9m to £5.5m per annum. As well as the financial 
benefits, service innovations are delivering more efficient and 
better services.
CKH’s call centre has relocated to Mears’ premises and this facilitates 
coordination of activity between the call takers and Mears schedulers, 
which is improving efficiency and enabling the schedulers to optimise 
operator time. This system maximises individual productivity while 
keeping tenants happy with a more efficient service. Since April 2010 
99.8% of jobs are completed on time and 100% of emergencies.
CKH’s personnel take the calls using the QL Housing Management 
System which connects to Mears Contract Management (MCM). 
Once a call is entered, MCM is automatically updated. CKH’s call 
takers give an appointment time on the spot for 82% of calls. 
The rest – mainly for external works or communal areas where home 
access appointments are necessary – are scheduled by Mears. 
Optitime, a dynamic diary management system, picks up appointments 
and selects operators for the best use of time and skills.
The partnership has introduced a number of 
innovations which are reducing operational costs: 
	 	 Mears has taken on the voids letting process – delays 
in letting voids has a significant cost implication from 
loss of rent revenue. Mears has control over the key 
to key time and has taken over the letting function. 
CKH is getting faster rental returns together with 
reduced management costs. Void costs have 
reduced from £1,085 to £980 per property, 
saving £94,500 per annum;
	 	 Mears is now responsible for maintaining communal 
areas which is reducing contractor overheads; 
	 	 Mears installs basic aids and adaptations and, as part 
of the repairs and maintenance contract, has taken 
over responsibility for the management of fly-tipping, 
pest control and graffiti eradication; and 
	 	 a pilot scheme using photovoltaic panels to provide 
free sustainable energy has been set up.
  Our aim
By taking responsibility for complete service delivery 
we are aiming to deliver year on year cost savings 
through innovation and improved efficiency while at 
the same time continuously improving service quality.
  What the partnership offers
Shared resources, co-location and a single contractor 
responsible for all services facilitates innovation and 
flexibility. Complete cost transparency and rigorous 
benchmarking protect client and tenant interests. 
  How tenants benefit
Mears operatives work in people’s homes and in the 
local community on a daily basis and are CKH’s eyes 
and ears. They understand the tenants’ needs and 
help deliver service excellence.
