 04 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Chairman’s statement
Another year of solid progress.
“ We continue to place great emphasis on winning good quality contracts that can provide 
clear and sustainable margins, whilst at the same time providing a first class service 
and value offering for our clients.”
Bob Holt / Chairman
Both profits and revenue have risen for the 
sixteenth consecutive year. Our Social Housing and 
Care revenues grew by 9% and 8% respectively. 
Profit before tax, amortisation and non-recurring 
items rose to £31.5m (2010: £28.9m) on revenue of 
£589.0m (2010: £523.9m). The normalised diluted 
earnings per share increased by 11% to 26.01p 
(2010: 23.38p). The Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 5.35p per share (2010: 4.85p), making 
7 .50p per share for the year, an increase of 11%.
Cash generated from operations as a proportion of 
the profit for the year (before tax and amortisation) 
amounted to 91% (2010: 97%), reflecting the strength 
of our working capital management.
We are extremely pleased with this robust set 
of results given both the continuing impact of 
the current economic situation and, critically, 
in the wake of the sudden decision by the UK 
Government to accelerate the reduction in the 
Feed-in Tariff subsidy for solar photovoltaic 
(PV) installations.
This year, three things stand out for me in 
particular. First and foremost, our already 
market-leading service delivery performance 
continued to be recognised by tenants and 
customers alike. Second, we demonstrated how 
we can make a real difference in challenging times, 
as we transformed the contracts we have inherited 
from failed businesses. Third, in a support services 
sector, where many well established businesses 
have struggled to deliver significant organic growth, 
we have managed to reap the rewards from our 
investment over the years in high quality customer 
service with strong organic growth.
The PV Tariff decision was reached without 
consultation and has been a disaster for the 
industry that had been heralded as a major 
boost to the economy and the environment. 
The Government has been found to have acted 
unlawfully by the Court of Appeal; consequently, 
the industry is somewhat in ‘limbo’. Pending 
clarification on the longer-term outlook, we took 
the prudent view to mothball our solar panel 
operations and to write off the costs expended to 
date in the 2011 financial year. Whilst PV formed 
only a small add-on to our core Social Housing 
business, the speed of the Government change 
resulted in a disproportionate impact.
As stakeholders begin tackling the underlying 
challenges in social housing and care in a 
sustainable fashion, I am confident that our 
differentiated quality-focused market position 
will see us reap the rewards for which we have 
worked hard.
Record order book
Our order book stands at £2.9 billion. The demand 
for our services continues to be very strong with 
a bid pipeline in excess of £3.0 billion with an 
immediate bidding opportunity for contracts due 
to start in the course of the next twelve months 
in excess of £2.0 billion. We enter the current year 
with visibility of 94% of the £649m consensus 
revenue forecast for 2012. Moreover, we have 
visibility over 80% of the £686m consensus 
revenue forecast for 2013 which demonstrates 
our strong position and reflects the long-term 
nature of our business.
We are well placed to benefit from the immediate 
bid pipeline and the wider contracting opportunity 
in both our core growth markets. Our relationship 
with our customers continues to be strong and our 
partnering ethos is recognised and appreciated 
widely. We are delighted that customers feel able 
to award, as well as renew, contracts to the Group 
across an array of activities.
“ We will grow through 
further contract wins, 
underpinned by our 
market‑leading service 
delivery and, where 
appropriate, regional 
in‑fill acquisitions.”
Social Housing 05 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
Strategic developments
We have been broadening our care and support 
offerings to our clients. The acquisition of the 
Supported Living division of Choices Care brings 
the Group capabilities in providing a supported 
living service to adults with learning disabilities, 
autism and mental health needs, in their own 
homes. These adults tend to require a more 
complex care support package than is often 
offered in the traditional domiciliary care area. 
The acquisition of a group of home improvement 
agencies from Anchor Housing further strengthens 
our capability to help keep people in their own 
homes for longer. Home improvement agencies 
contract with Local Authorities to provide primarily 
home adaptation and handyman services to 
vulnerable owner-occupiers in local communities. 
Together, these two acquired businesses are an 
excellent complement to our existing operations; 
both have reported growth since acquisition.
Progressive social housing customers continue to 
seek innovative solutions to their needs. The Group 
has been active in developing new propositions 
around ‘in-sourcing’ and ‘new homes’. Our unique 
integrated care and housing offering continues to 
resonate with customers. Our first integrated service 
operation is up and running in Wigan. Irrespective 
of the current uncertainty over PV, we will continue 
to strive to provide solutions to our customers and 
clients to address the challenges of fuel poverty.
Committed employees
I commend our employees for their commitment 
and energy throughout another significant year 
for the Group. I continue to be impressed by the 
quality, professionalism and loyalty displayed 
by our people. We will return this faith with 
appropriate investment in our people. Given we 
work in some of the most deprived communities 
in the UK, we take our responsibilities regarding 
employment extremely seriously. We have 
208 people enrolled in Apprenticeship and 
Job Experience programmes within Mears. 
We are proud of the many practical and 
local opportunities we are able to create 
in these challenging times. 
Positive outlook
Both social housing and care are robust defensive 
sectors where spend is largely non-discretionary. 
We continue to place great emphasis on winning 
good quality contracts that can provide clear and 
sustainable margins, whilst at the same time 
providing a first class service and value offering for 
our clients. We will continue to differentiate ourselves 
through financial robustness, tenant-centric 
customer service and proposition innovation 
developed in partnership with our customers. 
We expect our Social Housing business will 
grow through further contract wins, underpinned 
by market-leading service delivery and, where 
appropriate, regional in-fill acquisitions. In our Care 
business we will seek acquisitions that increase 
our ability to respond to growing opportunities 
from health and social care outsourcing and 
implementation of new localised commissioning 
models. We will look to enhance and broaden our 
offering through partnerships and acquisitions.
I look forward to bringing you news of further 
success during the coming year.
Bob Holt
bob.holt@mearsgroup.co.uk
Chairman
27 March 2012
7.50p
Total dividend
2010: 6.75p
+11%
£2.9bn
Order book
2010: £2.7bn
+7%
“ We will seek acquisitions 
that increase our ability 
to respond to growing 
opportunities from health 
and social care outsourcing 
and implementation of new 
localised commissioning 
models. We will look to 
enhance further and 
broaden our offering 
through partnerships 
and acquisitions.”
Care and Support
