 08 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Chief Executive’s review
“ We have focused on further enhancing our market‑ leading bidding and service 
delivery capabilities through both senior management recruitment and training 
and process improvement.”
In summary
Social Housing
The Social Housing business has performed well, 
reporting growth of 9%. The Social Housing operating 
margin reported a small reduction to 5.8% (2010: 6.0%).
Care and Support
The Care division reported growth of 8%. The operating 
margin has increased to 8.0% (2010: 7 .5%). The growth 
in margin has been achieved through identifying further 
synergies together with a change in sales mix as the 
division commenced delivering more acute and higher 
margin services.
Other Services
Other Services predominantly comprises the M&E 
operation. This division has experienced a significant 
upturn in activity over the year with revenues increasing 
48%. Whilst the trading environment remains competitive 
and is expected to continue to be so in the short term, 
the division has full visibility of forecast revenues for 
the 2012 year and is already focused at developing 
the order book for 2013. 
David Miles / Chief Executive Officer
Group performance
I am pleased to report a year of significant 
progress across the Group in what has been a 
challenging year. We have seen the Group further 
consolidate its market-leading positions in 
both the Social Housing and Care sectors. The 
continued focus on providing first class value for 
money customer service through our partnership 
ethos has once again been rewarded with 
considerable new contract bidding success. 
Group revenues increased by 12% to £589.0m. 
The Group’s overall operating margin reduced from 
6.0% to 5.7% predominantly driven by a shift in the 
sales mix with our lower margin Other Services 
division having a larger share of the whole. This 
is reviewed in greater detail below.
Social Housing – performance
I am delighted that our Social Housing division 
continues to report improving service delivery 
notwithstanding the high standards already being 
achieved. The proportion of customers rating our 
service as excellent stands at 80% (2010: 79%). 
Typically others in the sector measure only customer 
satisfaction whereas our drive has always been 
for excellence. We also had the lowest ever level 
of complaints as a percentage of work carried 
out at 0.30% (2010: 0.32%). Service quality remains 
our key differentiator. Whilst I am delighted at the 
strong performance delivered in terms of both 
new contract bidding and ultimately the financial 
outputs, it is important to remember that it is service 
quality that has always underpinned our success.
The Social Housing business has performed 
well, reporting revenue growth of 9%. As expected, 
we have seen a reduction of £31.5m in our capital 
projects revenues as the Decent Homes programme 
moves towards its natural conclusion. This masks the 
continued strong growth within our core maintenance 
activities which registered an increase of 14%. We 
would anticipate a final reduction of around £30m 
from Decent Homes revenue in 2012. We remain 
optimistic that we can continue to deliver solid 
double-digit organic growth in both the short 
and medium term.
The Social Housing bid pipeline remains robust, 
which further supports our confidence that 
we will continue to deliver strong growth in our 
core Maintenance business. The impact of the 
acquisitions of Jackson Lloyd and the home 
improvement agencies added £20.3m to our 
Maintenance revenues. The contribution to 
Group revenues through the relationships 
acquired with the Bristol Social Housing 
division of Rok contributed £5.3m to our 
Projects revenue. 
At a divisional level, operating profit is reported 
before amortisation, exceptional items and share 
option costs. The Government’s announcement 
in October 2011 to significantly reduce both the 
level and the timing of the PV feed-in tariff was 
extremely disappointing. The Board considered 
that the prudent course of action was to cease 
these activities immediately. This resulted in 
the write off of costs relating to the site set-up, 
system design and installation amounting 
to £2.0m. This cost has been excluded from 
the Group’s headline financial performance 
indicators and is categorised as exceptional.
Significant growth opportunities.
£m
Social
Housing total
Core
maintenance
Capital
projects
2010 revenue 379.4 289.0 90.4 
Impact of 2011 acquisitions 25.6 20.3 5.3 
Decent Homes expiry (31.5) — (31.5)
Organic growth in core maintenance 41.5 41.5 — 
2011 revenue 415.0 350.8 64.2 
Organic growth 14%  09 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
The Social Housing operating profit increased to 
£23.9m (2010: £22.9m), with the operating margin 
reporting a small reduction to 5.8% (2010: 6.0%). 
The continuing reduction in works relating to 
Decent Homes does inevitably add a challenge 
to margin in both 2011 and 2012, given that these 
contracts generated a solid margin and are being 
replaced by revenues that, through their early 
stages, will generate a reduced margin. Typically 
the Group anticipates a low margin from a new 
contract during its mobilisation phase, a time when 
it is critical to ensure that the necessary processes 
are put in place while at the same time focusing 
on excellent customer service. It is important to 
note that Mears does not capitalise any of these 
start-up costs and the losses associated with 
new mobilisations are fully expensed in the period. 
Whilst there have always been competitors with a 
greater appetite for revenue growth at the expense 
of margin, we remain highly selective and there 
is no shortage of opportunities where potential 
clients are willing to focus on quality and not 
simply the price paid to Mears. The high number 
of recent contract successes will provide the 
foundations for delivering robust growth in 2012. 
The first quarter of 2012 will see the most intense 
period of new contract mobilisation in our history 
with five significant new contracts due to start 
on or around 1 April 2012 with an annual value 
of £50m. We continue to invest heavily in our 
infrastructure to ensure that we can deliver on 
these new contracts whilst maintaining the high 
quality of our overall service delivery.
£589.0m
Group revenue
2010: £523.9m
+12%
Significant growth opportunities.
In the last twelve months we have been awarded new social housing contracts valued 
at £590m (including extensions) representing 43% by value of all contracts bid in the last 
twelve months. The key contract awards, which are all due to commence in 2012, are 
detailed below: 
Barnet Homes 
A ten-year contract with Barnet Homes. The contract is valued at £69m over the 
ten-year period to provide responsive repairs, void maintenance and cleaning services 
to approximately 11, 100 properties.
Waverley Borough Council
A seven-year contract valued at £52m over the initial seven-year period to provide 
responsive repairs, voids, capital works, aids and adaptations services. There is an 
option to extend the contract for a further seven years, taking the total opportunity 
to £104m. Waverley owns and manages in excess of 5,000 properties in Surrey. 
Home Group
A seven-year contract with Home Group to cover properties in their South West region. 
The contract is worth £35m for the initial seven-year term and there is an option to extend 
for a further two years. We will be providing responsive repairs, voids, gas servicing and 
planned maintenance services. Home Group owns and manages circa 3,200 properties 
in their South West region.
Tamworth Borough Council
A five-year contract to provide responsive repairs and void maintenance, together with 
a range of reinvestment works. The contract is valued at £40m over the initial five-year 
period and includes an option to extend for a further two years, giving a total contract 
value of £56m including extensions. We have been appointed as sole partner to deliver 
these services to 4,500 properties.
Gateshead Council
A three-year partnership contract to provide responsive repairs, void services, gas 
servicing, cyclical maintenance and adaptations services. The contract is valued at 
£60m for the initial three-year period, with an option to extend for a further two years, 
giving a total contract value of £100m including extensions. We have been appointed 
as sole partner to deliver these services to 21,000 properties.
Our new contract successes have increased our Social Housing order book to £2.4 billion. 
Our bid pipeline remains robust and in excess of £3.0 billion, with the immediate bidding 
opportunity for contracts due to start over the course of the next twelve months in 
excess of £2.0 billion.
Social Housing – new contract bidding 10 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Chief Executive’s review: Our strategy
Our strategic goals.
We have a clear and effective strategy to strengthen and 
leverage our two existing growth platforms of Social Housing 
and Care and Support.
Our mission is to be the market 
leader in transforming the social 
housing and care and support 
services environment, improving 
homes, improving neighbourhoods 
and improving people’s lives.
Making a positive 
difference through 
our differentiated, 
tenant‑centric 
service delivery.
Quality leadership
A customer ‑ 
centric model
Secure market‑ leading performance
Quality service yields 
competitive advantage 
The success of Mears is 
intrinsically linked to maintaining 
quality leadership in both our 
markets. For us, quality is a 
factor not only of direct customer 
satisfaction but also of the broader 
contributions we make to the 
communities in which we work 
Putting our residents first 
All our services will be designed 
around the direct input of tenants 
and service users. Whether it’s the 
services we offer or the training we 
give to staff, our first thought will 
be the needs of our customers
Integrated in‑ house IT and 
financial management for 
optimum performance  
Mears robust and sustainable 
performance is built on a bedrock 
of first-rate, in-house developed 
IT management systems, robust 
financial controls and an experienced 
management team  
What this means 11 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
How we’re doing it Our goals moving forward Key measures
//  Gaining external and internal recognition 
//  Creating trusted partnerships for the long term 
//  Being willing to share value 
//  Focusing on quality with sustainable margins 
//  Benchmarking ourselves versus other sectors 
as well as our own
//  Continuing to deliver a Serving Communities 
plan in every locality in which we work 
//  Integrating our care and repair services 
//  Creating apprenticeships and work 
opportunities 
//  Putting residents at the front end of our 
service design 
//  Ensuring timely and focused KPI management 
and reporting 
//  Providing strong in-house IT development 
team giving market-leading IT capability 
//  Managing supply chain through 
key partnerships 
//  Focusing on fast and efficient contact 
mobilisation capability 
//  To achieve stretch customer satisfaction 
target that 80% of tenants regard our 
service as excellent 
//  To exceed regulatory expectations 
within Care and Support as defined 
by Care Quality Commission (CQC) 
//  To have market-leading contract 
retention levels 
//  To further develop our leading approach 
to Serving Communities 
//  To demonstrate and deliver the benefits 
of integrating Repairs and Care services 
//  To build networks of residents across 
the country to ensure best practice 
is transferred to the benefit of all
//  To continue to establish our 
market-leading position 
//  To maintain our longstanding delivery 
on margin and cash 
//  To successfully roll out Mears Care IT system 
//  To continue excellent compliance with 
regulatory frameworks 
Percentage of people rating 
service as excellent 
Customer complaints 
New contract bidding success rate 
Contract retention levels 
Customer satisfaction 
levels where our services 
are integrated 
Number of community projects 
carried out 
Number of apprenticeships and 
job experience opportunities 
Levels of waste recycled 
Revenue growth
Operating margins
Profit to cash conversion 
Normalised diluted earnings 
per share  12 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Chief Executive’s review continued
Care and Support – performance
The Care division reported growth of 8% with 
revenues increasing to £108.5m (2010: £100.4m). 
This growth in Care revenues includes the full-year 
impact of the acquisition of Supporta plc, which 
was acquired in January 2010, and the revenues 
acquired from Choices Community Care (in 
administration) which came online in August 2011. 
The underlying organic growth was 2%. Whilst the 
level of organic growth is well below our stated 
target of double-digit growth, the continuing 
improvement in operating margin is particularly 
pleasing in a sector which continues to see such 
an important service procured predominantly on 
price. The operating margin has increased to 8.0% 
(2010: 7.5%). The growth in margin has been 
achieved through identifying further synergies 
together with a change in sales mix as the division 
has commenced delivering more acute and 
higher-margin services. I am delighted at the 
performance of our Care division in terms of 
the quality of service delivery together with 
its strong financial performance.
Care remains an environment where services 
continue to be purchased predominantly on price. 
We remain optimistic that this will change over 
the medium term. It is a fine balance between 
growing our top line whilst at all times protecting 
our operating margin. I do believe at times we have 
been a little too risk averse when bidding for new 
Care contract opportunities and this is an area that 
is under constant review. Certainly as we start to 
offer more acute services, this will provide more 
flexibility in terms of a growth and margin trade-off. 
I continue to believe that double-digit organic 
growth in Care is a very achievable target. 
In Care, our new contract bidding success rate (by value) is 70% of all contracts bid 
for in the last twelve-month period amounting to a total value of £70m.
This once again reflects the ongoing trends in awarding consolidating contracts to 
providers with an excellent quality reputation and a capability to deliver against the 
emerging personalisation agenda. The most significant new contract awards include 
the following:
Wirral Council
The most significant single award has been with Wirral Council. The contract has an 
expected value of £14m with a term of five years. Wirral Council is an existing Mears 
Care client and, having retained our existing business, we added further specialist 
services, which is representative of our strategy to increase work in the higher-end 
care areas.
Sefton Council
The five-year contract with Sefton Council has an estimated value of £7m with 
an estimated volume of 2,300 hours per week with Mears being named one of 
four providers.
Liverpool City Council
The three-year contract with Liverpool City Council has an estimated value of £3.5m. 
Of the eight existing main providers for Liverpool, Mears is one of only three that have 
been retained. The estimated volume is 1,900 hours per week, which represents an 
increase on existing work levels. 
Rotherham Metropolitan Borough Council
The three-year contract with Rotherham Metropolitan Borough Council has an estimated 
value of £5.8m. This contract award represents a key existing contract retention.
South Gloucestershire Council
A contract with South Gloucestershire Council for the provision of extra care and support 
services at a newly built extra care scheme which will be home to older people and those 
with learning disabilities, physical disabilities, mental health, sensory impairment, dementia, 
alcohol/substance misuse issues and those with HIV. The five-year contract is valued 
at £3m.
Care and Support – new contract bidding 13 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
“ Whilst I am delighted at the strong performance delivered 
in terms of both new contract bidding and ultimately the 
financial outputs, it is service quality that has always 
underpinned our success.”
Our current focus is to complete the roll-out of 
our new Care IT platform. The IT development 
was completed during 2011 using the skills and 
experience learnt from the Social Housing division 
to generate opportunities for efficiencies for both 
ourselves and our clients and provide significant 
competitive advantage. We remain determined to 
reinvest those savings into our care workforce who 
provides quality care services for a relatively low 
wage and remain undervalued when considering 
the responsibility and social contribution of 
their roles.
Equally important is Mears new partnership with 
Tunstall for the implementation of telecare and 
telehealth systems within the home environment. 
Telecare and telehealth, when combined with 
effective personal care and support, can both 
improve service and reduce costs. The results 
of the Department of Health study into the use 
of telecare and telehealth were extremely positive. 
Through the Mears partnership with Tunstall, we 
are already implementing the largest telecare 
project in the UK in Birmingham, across an 
anticipated 24,000 homes, and we see an 
acceleration of these opportunities through 
2012 and 2013.
Other Services – performance
Mears’ Other Services predominantly comprises its 
Mechanical & Electrical (M&E) operation. This division 
has experienced a significant upturn in activity over 
the year with revenues increasing 48% to £65.4m. 
Whilst the trading environment remains competitive 
and is expected to continue to be so in the short 
term, the division does have full visibility of forecast 
revenues for the 2012 year and is already focused 
on developing the order book for 2013. Whilst it is 
pleasing to report this significant increase in new 
works, the M&E environment is currently highly 
competitive and pricing is keen. I am delighted at the 
performance of the M&E operation and it is a credit 
to the quality of the team that it has continued to 
generate profits and meet budget expectations 
in what has been a challenging period.
Management team 
Since my appointment as Chief Executive, I have 
focused on further enhancing our market-leading 
operational capabilities through both senior 
management recruitment and training and process 
improvement. We have the right management team 
in place to take our business forward and capitalise 
on the many opportunities in our growth markets. 
Safety, health and environment (SHE)
Another great year for Mears: accidents rates 
down, recycling rates increased, waste costs 
reduced and quality standards introduced across 
the group to improve standards further. This has 
been complemented with improved training and 
committed management teams. This has been 
further affirmed by RoSPA with 2012 being the 
tenth consecutive year in which Mears have been 
awarded the Gold Award and also achieved the 
18001 accreditation.
Our environmental performance continues to 
improve. In 2011 we teamed up with our waste 
partner Network Waste and in the last 10 months 
we reduced our overall cost for disposing of waste by 
10% and improved our recycling from 76% to 88%. 
I hope to be able to report further improvements 
in a year from now.
Our environmental performance continues to 
improve. In 2011 we teamed up with our waste 
partner Network Waste and in the last ten months 
we reduced our overall cost for disposing of waste by 
10% and improved our recycling from 76% to 88%. 
I hope to be able to report further improvements 
in a year from now.
Our training commitments continued in 2011 
including further refresher training for all operatives 
and carers. Specific on-the-job training included 
scaffold, lifting and working at height training 
and these are all contributing to our improved 
safety performance.
Training and development
We are delighted that through periods of employee 
growth we have retained our accreditation with 
Investors in People. We have opted for annual 
assessment and our 2011 report provided very 
positive feedback. In addition to this we now carry 
out annual employee satisfaction surveys which 
provide valuable information.
In 2011 our apprentice and trainee numbers 
increased by 95, 13 of which transferred from 
other companies as a result of contract wins and 
the remaining were newly created opportunities. 
At the end of 2011 we launched our apprentice 
programme in Care. During the same year we 
retained 85% of apprentices and trainees that 
had completed their training programme.
In January 2011 we launched a new leadership 
training programme, which 76 senior managers 
completed. The results have been positive with 
all managers stating that they felt more confident, 
particularly in respect of people management 
and presentations. On average every employee 
receives five days of training per year in areas 
of people management, health and safety, 
customer services and trade skills.
Our communities
We have operations throughout the UK and all 
our branches are dedicated to helping to improve 
people’s lives. We work in some of the most socially 
deprived areas of the country and so we feel a 
strong sense of responsibility toward the wider 
community. Helping a community thrive increases 
the quality of life for residents and supports 
community cohesion and development.
David Miles
david.miles@mearsgroup.co.uk
Chief Executive Officer
27 March 2012
£33.6m
Group operating profit*
2010: £31.3m
+7%
*  Before exceptional items and pre 
amortisation of acquisition intangibles. 14 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Market development review
“ Changes in both our core growth sectors of Social Housing and Care continue to be driven 
by Government legislation, demographics and austerity measures. We see these changes 
as extremely positive and believe they will provide further growth opportunities.”
Changes in both our core growth sectors of 
Social Housing and Care continue to be driven 
by Government legislation, demographics and 
austerity measures. We see these changes as 
extremely positive and believe they will provide 
further growth opportunities.
Social Housing
Social Housing has several key growth drivers 
including the continued consolidation both in 
terms of the number of contractors and in the 
number of Registered Social Landlords. This 
trend is observed within Housing Associations 
and Councils and in turn leads to increasing 
opportunities for organisations such as Mears 
who operate at a local level but who bring the 
economies of a national player.
The public services white paper, published by 
the Cabinet Office in July last year, re-affirmed 
the Government’s guiding principles for public 
services as being choice for public service users, 
decentralised decision making, diversity of supply, 
fair access to services and that public services 
should be accountable to users and taxpayers. 
We support fully this development as it plays to our 
strengths of working with clients and service users 
alike to maximise the positive impact of what we do 
whilst managing our costs very tightly. For Local 
Authorities 2012 will see the management and 
finance of council house operations being brought 
onto a similar footing as housing associations. This 
decentralised decision making, which applies from 
April 2012, will put Local Authorities be in the driving 
seat for determining the future of the local housing 
offer they will make to their community. For housing 
associations we see 2012 as a year of consolidation 
in respect of the application of the new affordable 
rent regime which allows uplift in rents on new 
tenancies to 80% of market rents to assist in 
the finance of new, much-needed social housing. 
Most landlords appear to be implementing rental 
increases of around 8% for this year. For all social 
landlords and for the majority of tenants the 
changes to the housing benefit arrangements, 
still being finalised, will require careful consideration 
as they come on stream. As in previous years we 
will be very careful which opportunities we pursue 
to ensure that we maintain our commitment to 
high quality, reliable services to both existing 
and new clients and residents alike. 
The ongoing mortgage lending constraints 
and the broader pressures on the economy 
are reinforcing the demand for affordable rented 
accommodation whether in the social or the private 
sector. Everywhere we work, demand for social 
housing outstrips supply especially where the 
costs of buying, or sometimes renting privately, 
are well beyond local wage levels.
This year will see the first of the new affordable rent 
homes become available as the Government’s new 
scheme for the production of new social housing 
comes into being. It will also see, we believe, more 
social housing landlords looking to add to the supply 
of affordable homes through new and innovative 
approaches being adopted by Local Authorities and 
Housing Associations alike. The review commissioned 
by the Government into the prospects of increased 
institutional investment in the private rented sector, 
chaired by Sir Adrian Montague, will also be 
worth following.
The service provision connections between housing 
supply, housing management and maintenance, 
personal social care and the provision of health 
services at a local level will all be examined in 
greater detail as everyone strives to minimise waste 
and maximise effectiveness within and between 
each of these service streams. We at Mears will 
ensure that our service complements, wherever 
possible, this new and necessary approach that 
we are beginning to see develop at a local level. 
In line with the Government’s approach to public 
services as set out in its white paper in July we 
expect more diversity in how service packages 
are put together. The financial pressures on public 
service bodies at an individual service, organisation 
or locality level will mean that not only will there be 
traditional opportunities for service provision but an 
increasingly wide range of bespoke arrangements.
The Government will finalise its approach to tackling 
fuel poverty and carbon reduction challenges in 
housing in the first quarter of 2012. The flagship 
policy for this is the Green Deal, which will include 
a new Energy Company Obligation (ECO), to replace 
the existing CESP and CERT schemes. ECO for social 
housing will largely focus on hard-to-treat properties, 
Responding to the needs of our markets. 15 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
for example where the property has solid walls. 
The broader Green Deal enables householders 
to receive loans to fund a wide range of energy 
efficiency improvement measures. The energy 
savings from the improvements made have to 
exceed the cost of the improvements. No up front 
investment is made by the householder/tenant, 
with the cost of the improvements being paid 
back directly through future energy bills. Uniquely, 
the loan is linked to the property and will pass to 
the next resident if the initial resident moves on. 
Social Landlords are being encouraged by central 
Government to become Green Deal providers. 
Mears will look closely at opportunities when 
the details of the scheme are finalised.
We will be careful in our selection of opportunities, 
as we have been in past years, but will also want 
to expand our repertoire where we can add to our 
portfolio of approaches. On occasion we can see 
this being joint approaches with other strategic 
partners, especially where we have strong working 
arrangements in place and there is a clear synergy in 
our long-term view for a sustainable service provision.
Although some of these opportunities will 
continue to be single-entity arrangements at local, 
regional and national levels, we anticipate more 
opportunities being multi-service, multi-client based 
which may be predominantly locally co-located as 
service commissioners work on an increasingly 
collaborative basis. 
Our community approach: Wirral Care and healthcare partnership 
Making a 
positive 
difference 
to each 
individual we 
work with.
Before they are discharged 
Mears assessors visit the patient in 
hospital to ensure all the necessary 
information and paperwork is in 
place. This also serves to establish 
understanding and communication 
between the care teams, the ward 
managers and the PCT . The success 
of this scheme is facilitating a more 
integrated service between local 
care and healthcare services.
Mears Wirral is running a Rapid Access contract with Wirral PCT to provide 
an emergency cover care service to get people who are fit for discharge 
home from hospital without delay. The service is for older people or those 
with a physical or mental disability. Mears commits to providing emergency 
care calls within 24 hours of discharge and for a period of up to two weeks 
until permanent care provision is in place. 16 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Market development review continued
Care and Support 
The long-term opportunities for Mears within Care 
and Support continue to be excellent. The ageing 
population and the fundamental desire of people 
to stay in their own home remain the foundations 
for this sector. Economic necessity is of course the 
third driver, which has led to never-seen-before 
levels of political activity in 201 1, which will continue 
into 2012 with the anticipated publishing of the 
Government’s white paper on the future of social 
care in the spring of 2012.
The reform of social care is also being set during 
a period of continuing political turmoil around the 
future of the NHS. There is all-round agreement 
that there needs to be shift from primary care to 
care in the community, but the pathway for the 
implementation of this policy remains disputed. 
We are now seeing greater joint working and 
commissioning between NHS Authorities and 
social care at a local level but the pace of this 
has been slower than hoped. Through acquisitions 
such as Choices in 2011, Mears is increasing its 
capability to handle more complex cases as a 
means to be well positioned for emerging 
opportunities in this area.
The Dillnot Review commissioned by the 
Department of Health last year to look at the 
future funding of adult care reported in the 
autumn. If accepted in full, this would lead to an 
additional initial spend on Care and Support of 
£1.3 billion, rising to as much as £3 billion in future 
years. Realistically, the Government may well scale 
back on this ambition within the Spring white 
paper but the direction of travel should be positive. 
The Government faces significant lobbying from 
numerous organisations concerning the state of 
care, most recently from the Equality and Human 
Rights Commission report of November 2011. 
Each of the scheme’s 56 residents has 
their own tenancy with light and airy 
rooms that are purpose-designed 
with, for example, wheelchair-friendly 
doorways and wet rooms. Communal 
facilities include a hairdresser, a 
restaurant and social areas for 
clubs and events.
Colebrooke House is the first 
scheme of its kind in the borough 
and is designed to allow its residents 
to live independently in their own 
homes with different levels of care 
support from Mears depending 
on each individual’s needs.
Colebrooke House, which is situated in the grounds of the Royal Military 
Academy in Greenwich, is a groundbreaking Extra Care Housing Scheme 
(ECHS) with its care and repair services both delivered by Mears. 
Mears provides the on-site care with the building maintenance being 
undertaken by our London and Quadrant operation based in Greenwich.
Making a 
positive 
difference 
through the 
provision of 
an integrated 
service.
Our community approach: Greenwich ECHS Care and Repair 17 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
“ The care and support system, as well as the whole healthcare system, is going through 
a period of change, the like of which has never been seen before. This does of course 
present short‑ term challenges to Mears but we have built a capability that is unique 
in the market and one that is very well placed to meet the longer ‑ term opportunities 
that exist.” 
Proposals to replace previous quality rating 
systems and new advice mechanisms are in 
development. Mears has been active in providing 
practical suggestions to all political parties on how 
to cost effectively improve the quality of care, in 
particular around opportunities to link together the 
care of the individual with the care of the home in 
which they live.
One of these opportunities is for utilising more 
technology in the support of care delivery within 
the home. Mears’ new integrated Care 
management system will speed up work 
allocation, provide better controls and reduce the 
significant amount of unnecessary paperwork 
within the system. Equally important is Mears’ 
new partnership with Tunstall, for the implementation 
of telecare and telehealth systems within the 
home environment. Telecare and telehealth, 
when combined with effective personal care and 
support, can both improve service and reduce 
costs. The results of the Department of Health 
study into the use of telecare and telehealth were 
extremely positive indicating that a 14% reduction 
in A&E admissions through to a startling 45% 
reduction in mortality rates could be achieved. 
Through the Mears partnership with Tunstall, 
we are already implementing the largest 
telecare project in the UK in Birmingham, 
across an anticipated 24,000 homes, and we 
see an acceleration of these opportunities 
through 2012 and 2013. 
The connection between housing quality and 
speed at which care requirements develop is 
strong and one which we observe through all of 
our operations. Whether that be a care worker 
noticing a faulty kettle plug or a joiner being told 
about an older neighbour who has not been seen 
for a couple of days, our front line staff are at this 
interface every day.
We, in response, take our responsibilities seriously, 
using our knowledge, experience and technology 
to bring added value to our work with the elderly 
whether in a repair, care or home improvement 
agency setting. Mears has a unique proposition to 
support people remaining independent in their 
own homes for longer. No other care company is 
also able to provide advice, home adaptations, 
handyperson services, telecare and personal care 
under one roof. Integrated services have real 
potential to save money and help vulnerable 
people to make an informed and better choice as 
to which products and services will help them the 
most.
In summary, the care and support system, as well 
as the whole healthcare system, is going through a 
period of change, the like of which has never been 
seen before. This does of course present short-term 
challenges to Mears but we have built a capability 
that is unique in the market and one that is well 
placed to meet the longer-term opportunities 
that exist.
David Miles
david.miles@mearsgroup.co.uk
Chief Executive Officer
Alan Long
alan.long@mearsgroup.co.uk
Executive Director
27 March 2012 18 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Chief Executive’s review: Key performance indicators
Measuring our progress.
We use the following KPIs to monitor our performance. 
Our strong financial performance is a result of our 
differentiated service delivery.
Service delivery
Delivering to our promises is at the heart of Mears. 
Each of our contracts has specific targets around 
job completion time based on the nature of the 
work. Emergency jobs are typically undertaken 
same day while routine work will be scheduled 
in into overall work plans. Having agreed the 
standards by type of work, it is obviously 
important that we stick to them. 
Jobs completed on time
>92%
92%
Whilst we achieve high levels of service excellence, 
it is important that we monitor carefully the number 
of poor service incidents, that we deal effectively 
with each individual complaint and that we learn 
from underlying trends. We measure the number of 
complaints as a percentage of repair jobs delivered 
in the period.
The sector in general collects customer 
satisfaction data and reports on the percentage 
of customers who rate the service as satisfactory. 
Given that we are service leaders, it is not 
sufficient to benchmark ourselves by these 
standards. Our measurement is based on the 
percentage of people who rate the service as 
excellent. We conduct around 80,000 surveys 
per year by phone and directly with the customer 
via our operatives’ hand-held device (PDAs). 
Percentage of people rating our 
service as excellent
Customer complaints
Why we measure it
>80% <0.30%
Our aim for 2012
80% 0.30%
Outcome
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
80%
77%
78%
75%
72%
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
0.30%
0.32%
0.34%
0.37%
0.41%
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
92%
91%
92%
89% 88%
We have the best service delivery 19 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
Contract bidding
We tender between £1–2 billion of new opportunities 
each year. The average contract length is around 
six years in length. In order to achieve our organic 
growth forecasts, we monitor the proportion of 
new contracts secured as a proportion of total 
tendered works. 
Included in this performance measure are contract 
retentions on re-bid whilst being awarded contracts 
from new customer relationships are key in order 
to achieve sustained growth.
Social Housing new contract 
success rate
33%
43%
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
43%
29%
30%
31%
42%
We typically secure long-term contracts with 
our clients. Typically our Social Housing contract 
average six years in duration. Our Care contracts 
are typically shorter at around three years. Our 
order book places an aggregate value of the future 
revenues that have been secured relating to services 
that will be delivered over future financial years. 
We only place a value against orders which are 
contractually secure and where the delivery of the 
works are highly probable. We do not include Social 
Housing framework arrangements within our order 
book as the value is considered uncertain. The order 
book valuation excludes indexation. The order book, 
which includes contract extensions, stretches 
to 2032.
Order book growth (£bn)
+10%
+7%
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
2.9%
2.7%
2.0%
1.6%
1.4%
Why we measure it
Our aim for 2012
Outcome
We are recognised as being better, which drives our contract bidding success 
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
93% 93% 
88%
92%
97%
We typically secure long-term contracts with our 
clients, with Social Housing and Care contracts 
on average six years and three years in duration 
respectively. Typically there is a period of around 
three months between the notification of the award 
and commencement. It is therefore imperative that 
at the start of any financial year, a significant 
proportion of that year’s orders are already secured. 
Revenue secured (%)
95%
93% 20 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Chief Executive’s review: Key performance indicators continued
Our strong financial performance 
is a result of our differentiated 
service delivery.
Social Housing operating margin gives a strong 
indication of profitability. We continually monitor 
our operating margin and manage our costs base 
to ensure that our services are delivered efficiently. 
Operating margin is struck before amortisation, 
share-based payment charges and exceptional 
items. We have consistently delivered a higher 
margin than our competitors. This has been due 
in part to being selective as to which new contract 
opportunities we tender. Our desire is to work with 
clients who focus on quality and value for money, 
and not simply the base price. The margin is also 
an indication as to the quality of our people and 
the quality of our systems.
Social Housing – operating margin
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
+14% +14%
+18%
+29%
+11%
Revenue represents the amounts due for services 
provided during the year. In order to measure 
organic growth, we deduct revenue derived from 
assets that have been acquired. Whilst acquisitions 
form part of our growth aspirations in Social 
Housing, we believe that organic growth gives a 
better indication of business performance, as it 
is a purer aggregation of market growth, success 
in new contract bidding and contract retention. 
We also exclude the impact of revenues from 
the Decent Homes initiative as this area of the 
business is short term in nature. Our key focus 
continues to be our long-term, non-discretionary, 
maintenance revenues. 
Social Housing maintenance revenue 
– organic revenue growth
Why we measure it
+10%
Our aim for 2012
+14%
Outcome
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
5.8%
6.0% 6.0%
6.1% 6.1%
5.8%
5.8%
Financial outputs
Revenue represents the amounts due for goods 
and services provided during the year. Our strategy 
in Care is to grow our existing business organically 
whilst making further strategic acquisitions to 
increase the services that we can offer to our 
clients. Our ambition is to be in a position to provide 
a complete solution for our service users. Typically, 
we look to acquire a small, regional operation that 
possesses a required specialism. We then look to 
use that acquisition as a platform to tender more 
contracts of this nature across the rest of the UK. 
We believe that the revenue growth and operating 
margin performance indicators cannot be considered 
singularly. It is a fine balance between growing the 
top line whilst maintaining our operating margin. 
Whilst revenue growth is a key performance 
measure, the quality of our service delivery and 
our operating margin will always take precedence.
Care and Support – revenue growth
+10%
+8%
2011 2010 2009
+8%
+67%
+10% 21 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
The Care operating margin gives a strong indication 
of profitability. We continually monitor our operating 
margin and manage our costs base to ensure that 
our services are delivered efficiently. Operating 
margin is struck before amortisation, share-based 
payment charges and exceptional items. Care 
remains an environment where services continue 
to be purchased predominantly on price. We believe 
therefore that the revenue growth and operating 
margin performance indicators cannot be considered 
singularly. It is a fine balance between growing the 
top line whilst at all times protecting our operating 
margin. The acquisition of the Supported Living 
division of Choices Care provides the Group the 
capabilities to deliver more acute services that 
typically command a higher margin. 
Care and Support – operating margin
8.5%
8.0%
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
11.2%
8.2%
13.8%
15.5%
20.3%
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
85%
89%
103%
43%
93%
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
8.0%
7.5%
5.2%
5.6%
6.4%
Why we measure it
Our aim for 2012
The efficiency with which the Group manages 
working capital remains a cornerstone of our 
business. The Group closely monitors the conversion 
of profit into cash. The key measure is cash inflow 
from operating activities as a proportion of EBITA.
Profit to cash conversion
80%
85%
Normalised earnings are stated before exceptional 
costs and exclude the amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles together with an adjustment to reflect 
a full tax charge. We believe that a normalised 
diluted EPS measure gives a true assessment of 
operational performance, the analysis of trends 
over time, the comparison of different businesses 
and the projection of future performance. The 
number of shares in issue allows for the potentially 
diluting impact of outstanding share options.
Normalised diluted EPS
+8%
+11%
Outcome
