 14 Mecom Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008
Overview
Overview
Since the summer of 2008 Mecom has been 
making significant adjustments to its financial 
position to deal with unprecedented economic 
conditions caused by the worldwide recession. 
The downturn, which has been reflected in a 
marked decline in trading multiples of publicly 
listed newspaper groups, came within months 
of Mecom completing its largest acquisition, 
of Wegener in the Netherlands, which itself 
represented half the size of the Group. 
Clearly the Group has had to act promptly 
to install a financial structure suitable for the 
current times and one that will sustain the 
business through a volatile advertising market 
with the extent of the downturn still difficult  
to predict. 
At the beginning of 2009 Mecom agreed the 
disposal of its German assets, principally the 
newspapers in Berlin and Hamburg. The price 
achieved (7.8 times 2008 adjusted EBITDA) 
was materially in excess of the trading multiple 
of both Mecom and the sector. Later, the 
Northwest Norwegian assets were sold at 
a price (7.3 times adjusted EBITDA) which 
reflected a similar premium to sector valuations. 
The combined €210 million of proceeds (net 
of expenses) has been used to pay down 
debt. In the case of Germany, the newspaper 
sector remains ripe for consolidation and as 
Mecom had no ability to participate further in 
this at the time, the disposal was well justified 
strategically. In the case of Northwest Norway, 
the disposal still leaves the Group with a 
considerable business in that country mainly 
grouped much closer to Oslo. The lost profits 
from the disposed assets should be made 
up in the medium term by strenuous cost 
reduction including sharing of services with 
other Norwegian publishers.
The disposals do not disrupt the pursuit or 
the validity of the overall Group strategy. 
This is to consolidate regional newspapers 
across Europe within a single infrastructure 
and to transform an old-fashioned print- 
based business into a content and consumer-
focused Group. 
The intensity of the economic storm will require 
us to accelerate cost savings associated with 
our ongoing restructuring programmes. In 
2008, the Group-wide reduction in headcount 
of 830, or 7 per cent, of the workforce was 
in part offset by high salary inflation. However, 
this inflationary trend in staff and supplier costs 
is now subsiding as the recession bites.
Economic conditions will also require us 
to intensify our transformation towards a 
business which grows new revenues both 
online and by selling more products, goods 
and services to our readers and users. In 2008, 
this transformation was particularly noticeable 
Chief 
Executive’s 
review
in Norway which is the Group leader in the 
expansion of online revenues and added new 
digital businesses and staff aggressively in  
the first half of the year, with 12 per cent of the 
Norwegian advertising revenues now coming 
from online.
We have now established a Group-wide 
policy of redeployment of resources rather 
than new investment to fuel transformation, 
with journalists being encouraged to produce 
content for different media outlets rather than 
simply printed newspapers. The business is 
run on a weekly basis by a unified European 
management group that includes the CEOs 
of the country divisions, the Chief Operating 
Officer, the Group Finance Director, Group 
Digital Officer and the Group CEO. This 
format is increasingly effective as the 
modernisation programme is rolled out from 
the best performing areas. In addition, there 
is a new and parallel initiative to centralise 
certain other Group functions where there is 
currently overlap between the Group’s head 
office in London and Wegener’s head office 
in Apeldoorn.
The Netherlands
Following extensive discussions and the 
replacement of the Wegener Supervisory  
Board, the new CEO Joop Munsterman  
swiftly set to work on a cost reduction 
plan resulting in a marked improvement to 
the profitability of the daily newspapers in 
particular. Coupled with continued focus on 
profit improvement in Limburg (the results 
of which are reported jointly with Wegener 
in the Netherlands segment), EBITDA
1
 in  
the Netherlands increased from £97.1 million 
in 2007 to £103.4 million in 2008 on static  
revenues of £632.3 million (2007: £636.2 
million).
Wegener’s current reorganisation plan (the 
so-called “Delta” plan), which originally sought 
around 500 job losses, will now be extended 
to include editorial departments.
At the same time the development of online 
newspaper advertising has been slow. 
Productivity improvements in both content 
and sales departments are being sought.
The combination of the Wegener and Limburg 
titles make Mecom the largest Dutch publisher 
with almost one million subscription copies 
a day and weekly household penetration of 
around 80 per cent of the Dutch market. The 
development of that consumer market is the 
management’s priority.
1 All financial information in this review is presented on a like-for-
like basis as explained on page 13.
ARTWORK NOTE: BASELINE GRID IS BEING USED ON THIS JOB 15
Overview
Denmark
Berlingske Media has suffered the worst of 
the advertising downturn and has been the 
longest in recession but has been the most 
successful division in the Group in reducing 
costs, down by around six per cent in 2008. 
This cost reduction went some way to 
compensate for the £32.3 million year-on-year 
decline in advertising revenues. Total revenues 
for the year were £371.9 million (2007: £409.0 
million) with EBITDA falling from £32.0 million 
in 2007 to £16.6 million in 2008.
In addition, the business is furthest advanced 
in transformation under the leadership of 
Lisbeth Knudsen, who occupies the roles of 
both editor-in-chief of the flagship national title 
Berlingske Tidende and Danish group CEO. 
The division returned to its refurbished 
headquarters in May and many of the 
traditional departments have disappeared. 
Instead journalists and sales staff are working 
in market groups, supplying a range of 
products, print and online as an integrated 
unit. This is highly developed in business, 
sport and lifestyle market groups and is  
being extended on a monthly basis to other 
content areas. 
The more efficient and revenue building model 
will equip the Danish business to make the 
most of a future return to growth and is being 
rolled out to other divisions during 2009. Whilst 
many restructuring initiatives were completed 
in Denmark during 2008, we anticipate that 
there will be further cost reductions in 2009. 
Norway
Management in the Group’s Norwegian 
division, Edda Media, was changed in the latter 
days of 2008 with Truls Velgaard assuming 
responsibility for Edda Media in addition to his 
responsibility for the Group’s Polish division. 
After a boom in advertising revenue in the first 
months of the year, Norway had a disappointing 
result as both existing businesses and newly 
acquired digital companies saw slowing 
revenues after the summer of 2008. As a 
consequence, total revenues in Norway 
grew slightly from £258.7 million in 2007 
to £267 .6 million in 2008. However, largely 
as a result of extensive investment in new 
revenue areas which contributed to an 
increase in costs of £22.6 million (including a 
decline in associate income from £3.0 million 
in 2007 to £0.9 million in 2008), EBITDA  
fell from £41.7 million in 2007 to £28.0 million 
in 2008.
As a result of the deteriorating advertising 
environment in Norway, Edda Media’s 
aggressive expansion programme, particularly 
in online acquisitions in Norway and Sweden, 
has been halted. 
The fall-off in advertising revenues was 
particularly noticeable in the developing 
national and international markets and action 
has been taken either to curtail cost or  
make disposals. 
However, the character of the local franchises 
remains robust as they represent the leading 
media brands in their areas where increasingly 
they occupy the number one position in online 
as well as in print.
Poland
The Polish division continues to develop 
through product launches in the regional 
newspaper division, particularly in the door-
to-door segment and in online which is 
experiencing the fastest rate of growth in the 
Group, with unique users per month up over 
50 per cent to 4 million. These developments 
were accompanied by growing advertising 
for the early part of 2008 but this tailed off 
decisively in the final months, particularly in 
the national newspaper division.
Subscription sales of the national title 
Rzeczpospolita declined only modestly during 
2008 as some of its rival publications saw 
significant circulation reductions. 
Modest declines in both circulation and 
advertising revenues (the latter caused by 
the ending of national advertising sales joint 
venture, whereas underlying advertising was 
up) contributed to a decline in overall revenues 
from £143.8 million in 2007 to £136.5 million in 
2008 with cost reductions mitigating much of 
this. EBITDA in 2008 was £9.1 million (2007: 
£11.4 million).
 
Germany
Advertising decline and inflationary influences 
were countered by energetic cost control 
in Berlin and Hamburg under the leadership 
of CEO and Berliner Zeitung editor-in-chief 
Josef Depenbrock. As a result the business 
ended 2008 with a higher profit margin than 
at the time of acquisition by Mecom. In 2008, 
shortfalls in revenue were in part mitigated by 
cost control, with revenues in 2008 of £119.3 
million (2007: £123.2 million) and EBITDA in 
2008 of £15.3 million (2007: £16.9 million).
Circulation has stabilised as a result of greater 
marketing effort that curtailed some profit 
development in 2008. Berliner Zeitung, a quality 
broadsheet, is close to becoming the largest 
circulation newspaper in the city, the gap 
having narrowed with BZ, the popular tabloid, 
during Mecom’s ownership. The continuing 
strong circulations of the titles represented 
a strong selling point in negotiations with the 
new owners, DuMont Schauberg.
We thank the employees of the German 
businesses for their hard work and 
commitment during our period of ownership 
in which we sought to develop and secure the 
titles for the future.
Online
Digital revenue in 2008 was £62.8 million, up 
by £11.8 million or 23 per cent year-on-year, 
reflecting an increase in online newspaper 
advertising sales and small bolt-on 
acquisitions. Management has changed the 
strategy of having dedicated staff for online 
and introduced integrated work across both 
digital and print platforms. This is designed 
to increase productivity in sales and content 
production markedly and to create many 
products from one central hub. 
The objective is to exploit a wider market of 
consumers and advertisers with a greater 
range of products that use common content 
origination and production. This transformation 
process will gain momentum during 2009.
Outlook
The trend in advertising revenue decline 
has steepened in the first months of 2009 
against challenging comparisons in the  
early part of 2008. In the first quarter advertising 
revenues were down 20 per cent, although 
the year-on-year comparison is complicated 
by the timing of Easter. Cost reduction has 
also accelerated in the first quarter to partly 
compensate for this trend. Subscription 
revenues remain broadly stable. The benefit of 
the efficiency measures is now less likely to be 
affected in the future by inflationary pressures.
The outlook continues to be unpredictable 
without great prospect of rapid improvement. 
Nevertheless the management is focused on 
a rapid modernisation programme to create 
a content and consumer business which is 
not only efficient but can take advantage of  
broader markets when the economy improves.
David Montgomery
Chief Executive
ARTWORK NOTE: BASELINE GRID IS BEING USED ON THIS JOB
