 12 Mecom Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008
Overview
Overview
I am very pleased to report in my first 
Chairman’s statement to shareholders that we 
expect that Mecom will shortly secure a new 
and solid financial platform for the future. We 
have today announced that a mix of existing 
shareholders and new institutional investors 
have signed non-binding letters of support for 
an equity issue to raise £140 million (before 
expenses). Their support is conditional on, 
amongst other things, the Group agreeing 
final facility documentation with its lenders 
(the principal commercial terms of which have 
already received credit approval from each 
of the lenders); the issue of a prospectus in 
connection with an equity issue; and relevant 
shareholder resolutions being passed. The 
Group’s new bank facilities, the principal 
feature of which is a waiver of normal trading 
covenants until June 2010, are primarily 
intended to protect Mecom against continuing 
weakness in its advertising markets. 
We anticipate that a prospectus will be 
posted to shareholders in mid-May. When  
the proceeds of an equity issue are received, 
we will repay our unsecured convertible loan 
note holders in full (approximately £30.6 million) 
with the balance of the proceeds applied in 
paying down bank debt. The combination of 
the disposals earlier in the year of our German 
and Northwest Norway divisions, the new 
bank arrangements and an equity issue give 
us a good base from which to enter an upturn 
in all of the economies in which we operate, 
from which all of our newspaper titles and 
other media outlets should benefit significantly. 
Although the short-term outlook for our 
businesses remains uncertain, the Board 
is confident that the longer term promises 
greater stability and improved profitability. We 
are grateful to our shareholders and lenders 
for sharing this confidence.
Board
It was announced on 16 January 2009 that I 
had been appointed Chairman of the Group, 
having previously been a non-executive 
Director. David Montgomery, who had been 
Executive Chairman of Mecom since its 
foundation, remains the Chief Executive. This 
change is in accordance with the undertaking 
Mecom gave at the time of its move to trading 
on the London Stock Exchange’s main market 
for listed securities last year to split the roles of 
Chairman and Chief Executive.
We were pleased to welcome Stephen 
Davidson who joined the Board as the Senior 
Independent Director on 16 January 2009 as 
well as Henry Davies, who joined the Board 
as acting Finance Director on the same day 
and became Group Finance Director on 13 
February 2009. We expect to be in a position 
to announce the appointment of another non-
executive director shortly.
Chairman’s 
statement
Throughout 2008 and the first few months 
of 2009, our managers and employees in 
all departments across the Group have 
responded – in the face of extremely debilitating 
economic conditions – with enthusiasm and 
determination in the continuing transformation 
of our traditional newspaper business into a 
more broadly-based consumer and content 
business. On behalf of the Board, I thank 
them very much for their commitment and 
hard work.
Alasdair Locke
Chairman
ARTWORK NOTE: BASELINE GRID IS BEING USED ON THIS JOB
