 chairman’s statement
The year 2004 included two events which represented major milestones
in Mediasurface’s development and marked a significant turning point for
the Company.
Firstly, in March 2004 the Company launched Mediasurface Version 5.0 which
included the innovative new product Morello which empowers the business user
to leverage the full benefit of Content Management Software. In short, the product
has been received positively by existing and potential new customers alike.
The Company is now well positioned to compete effectively going forward.
Secondly, in August 2004 the Company successfully floated on the London
Stock Exchange Alternative Investment Market raising £2 million before placing
costs. The flotation has now given the Company the resources to fully exploit
the potential of Morello in the market place, develop further releases and provide
a basis for further acquisitions in the future.
Revenues increased by 4.7% to £5.4 million during the year, together with tight
cost control, losses for the full year were reduced from £1.44 million for the year
ended 30 September 2003 to £0.41 million in the year under review. Cash reserves
stood at £1.40 million. 
In line with stated policy, earnings for the foreseeable future will be re-invested
to finance the growth of the Company and acquisition strategy. Consequently
the Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend. 
We were pleased to welcome the Rt Hon. Francis Maude MP to the Mediasurface
Board in August 2004. His experience of government has given us a breadth of
understanding in one of the Company’s important customer segments.
The full financial impact of Morello has not been felt in the financial year under
review due to the length of new business sales cycles, however, the Company
is now engaged with major new opportunities and the Directors are confident
these will drive revenue growth in the coming financial year.
MICHAEL JACKSON
Chairman
9 December 2004
02 MEDIASURFACE PLC Report and Financial Statements 2004
