 chief executive’s report
The year ended 30 September 2004 represented another year of considerable
improvement for the business as a whole recording an improvement in both
revenue and a further very significant reduction in trading losses, continuing the
trend established by the management team installed in late 2002. Both of these
improvements have however been achieved without compromising the company’s
investment in Research and Development, the long term future of the business.
Mediasurface is a software company earning a large portion of its revenues through
the licencing of its products and as such these products must be perceived to be
innovative, well differentiated and of real value to the end customer. In order to
achieve this the Company has developed a vision which has guided all of our
product development and all of our sales and marketing messaging. It is vital for
a software company such as Mediasurface to have such a vision and to remain
innovative enough to grow and attract new customers.
The Company’s vision is to empower “typical” business users with the capability
to build significant applications (websites, intranets and extranets) using extremely
easy to use commonplace desktop tools that are already familiar to them. These
users now have the ability to build, manage and run very significant applications
capable of scaling to very high levels of load with perhaps very large user
communities without the dependency on significant technical resources. The
business user should however be secure in the knowledge that the underlying
technology, which they need never be exposed to, is fully compliant with their
Company’s corporate IT standards and that the use of Mediasurface products
releases their IT resources for deployment on other added value activities.
We summarise this vision into nine words
“Serious websites, driven by business people, loved by IT”. 
It is this vision and the incremental steps the Company has taken to realise
it has delivered continued improvements in revenues and trading results.
In March of 2004, the Company made the most significant step yet towards
realising this vision through the release of its new flagship product, Morello
(www.hellomorello.com). This application is built using the Microsoft .NET framework
and Windows technology which is core technology for the vast majority of the
world’s desktops. As a consequence business users are now able to leverage
the power of their familiar desktop applications to participate fully in the content
lifecycle that underpins their applications. This new addition to the Mediasurface
suite has provided the Company with real differentiation in sales cycles which has
led to the Company being far more competitive in the marketplace, this is reflected
in sales pipeline improvements in all geographies. The Company intends to
continue to further develop its products in line with its vision during 2005.
Sales revenues during 2004 improved for the Company but perhaps the most
significant indicators come from the new business and new product to existing
customer revenue ratios. In 2003 existing customer revenue with our old product
instituted 59% of revenues with 41% from new business or product and in 2004
37% from old customers and product and 63% from new business and new
product. This demonstrates both the value of the new Morello product and also
MEDIASURFACE PLC Report and Financial Statements 2004 03 04 MEDIASURFACE PLC Report and Financial Statements 2004
the Company’s new found competitive capability. Another significant factor has
been the Company’s rejuvenation of its US business which, although still in its
early phase has led to an increase in US revenues of 27% compared to 2003.
Our mainland European business based in the Netherlands also remained strong
delivering 36% of corporate sales. It is the Directors’ belief that the short term
focus for the Company should remain focussed on our three geographies UK,
US and Benelux. The nature of the sales cycles (typically six to nine months)
together with the relative size of individual sales transaction when compared to the
Company’s overall revenues has meant that during 2004 the Company has been
vulnerable to sales slippage, where for example sales transactions fail to conclude
prior to a half or full year end. To a certain degree the Company remains vulnerable
to this however three factors should mitigate against this during 2005.
• As a result of the marketplace’s interest in Morello, more opportunities are
being generated which in turn should provide the Company with greater
coverage to replace any slipping revenue. 
• The Company continues to grow recurring revenues, up 5.5% compared
to last year, which reduces the dependency on new business sales. 
• The Company has commenced activities to provide Small and Mid-sized
Enterprises (‘SME’s’) with a hosted version of our products which they can
pay for on a monthly fee basis. This proposition is attractive to the SME
market because of the reduced initial capital outlay and is now facilitated
by the Morello product. This hosted or ASP model will deliver more modest
total deal sizes and greater volumes which will smooth out and reduce the
dependency on larger transactions close to half-year or full-year ends.
The listing of the Company on the AIM market was completed for a number of
reasons as stated in the prospectus. However one which should be individually
mentioned is Merger and Acquisition. The benefit to the Company of such a listing
can now be realised during 2005 and indeed in subsequent years to enable it
to execute purchase transactions to fuel its other inorganic growth strategy. The
Directors believe the Company is well placed to execute appropriate acquisitions
through the strength of the incumbent management team and should now have
the “management bandwidth” to undertake such transactions. 
The twin streams of the growth strategy (organic and acquisition) will continue
to be deployed during 2005 and these coupled with the maintenance of good
fiscal governance and cost control will remain the management team maxims.
The Directors believe that the improvements made during 2004 coupled to this
maxim should see the Company well placed to further build on its improvements
in revenues and trading position.
LAWRENCE FLYNN
Chief Executive Officer
9 December 2004
chief executive’s report (continued)
