 The year ended 30th September 2007 was 
characterised by two very different halves to 
the year. In the ﬁ rst half the Company delivered 
revenues of £6.06 million and an EBITDA of 
£0.47 million. This was based on continued 
strong sales successes around the major 
Morello product line, coupled with exceptionally 
strong demand for professional services and a 
growing pre-contracted maintenance annuity 
stream. During the ﬁ rst half, the business 
enjoyed a number of high proﬁ le, high value 
new business sales wins including the Foreign 
and Commonwealth Ofﬁ ce, the Ofﬁ ce of Fair 
Trading and VRT, a major Belgian broadcaster. 
The second half of the year was much more 
challenging for the core Morello business. The 
professional services and maintenance revenue 
streams remained very strong with continued 
high demand for services and continued 
growth in the pre-contracted revenues for 
maintenance. The company ended the year 
with an annualised pre-contracted run rate of 
£3.26 million (2006: £2.50 million) for the Morello 
maintenance stream. The situation in Morello 
licence sales was however much more difﬁ cult. 
There were two principal contributing market 
factors which had a much greater impact on the 
sales result than had been anticipated by the 
management. Firstly, the launch of MOSS 2007 
in April resulted in a much greater marketplace 
overhang than expected. As a direct result, 
sales cycles were heavily delayed while 
customers’ internal teams were distracted into 
evaluating MOSS as a potential solution to their 
web content management needs. In reality, 
MOSS was deemed not a suitable product by 
the vast majority of potential customers and no 
deals were lost to MOSS, however the delays 
and associated sales efﬁ ciency impacts within 
the business did have a signiﬁ cant negative 
impact on the expected top line revenue. 
The second key impact was less predictable. 
The effect of the “credit crunch” following on 
from the issues in the US with respect to the 
sub-prime market resulted in uncertainty in one 
of our key markets, ﬁ nancial services. The effect 
of this so close to the year end on a market that 
typically represents approximately 25 per cent. 
of our revenues was dramatic as prospects 
suspended, postponed or delayed a signiﬁ cant 
number of sales cycles.
PEPPERIO
The Pepperio product line had a disappointing 
year after a very promising start. The early 
encouraging signs persuaded management to 
continue to invest in channel establishment 
and a high growth strategy. Unfortunately the 
channel strategy proved successful from a 
channel partner recruitment perspective but, 
with a few notable exceptions, the channel 
proved not so successful from a sales execution 
standpoint. The resulting numbers of customers, 
whilst continuing to grow, was disappointing 
in the second half of the year and consequently, 
following the trading announcement in October 
2007, signiﬁ cant cost reduction initiatives were 
implemented. The core Pepperio proposition 
remains compelling to both customers and 
partners alike and holds the long term prospect 
for the group of a secure annuity style revenue 
from the Software as a Service (SaaS) model. 
Expectations have accordingly been reset 
within the business and the costs associated 
with the product line dramatically reduced.
The business enjoyed
a number of high 
proﬁ le, high value 
new business
sales wins.
The professional services and maintenance 
revenue streams remained very strong. 
Chief Executive’s report
03
Mediasurface plc   Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Chief Executive’s report
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th September 2007
MD2243– AR07 AW02.indd   3 MD2243– AR07 AW02.indd   3 26/2/08   13:49:32 26/2/08   13:49:32 Mediasurface plc   Annual Report and Accounts 2007
04
Chief Executive’s report
Immediacy slightly exceeded expectations 
and is now a major contributor, representing 
around 30 per cent of overall business. 
Immediacy now 
represents 30% of 
the overall business.
ACQUISITION
Also in the second half, and on a far
more positive note, the Company acquired 
Immediacy Limited, a UK based provider of Web 
Content Management Software to two sectors; 
mid-sized companies where the solution is 
deployed as the strategic web platform; and 
within larger organisations where the solution 
is acquired tactically to support departmental 
or project based initiatives. Immediacy sits 
well within the overall product line up of 
Mediasurface and has enjoyed previous years 
of growth and success. In the ﬁ rst quarter of 
ownership of Immediacy within the group, the 
business slightly exceeded expectations and is 
now a major contributor to the plc representing 
around 30 per cent of the overall business. 
The proﬁ le of the Immediacy revenue stream 
is the same as Morello (namely, licence sales, 
professional services and maintenance) but 
the fact that it is a lower price, higher volume 
model assists the group in reducing the risks 
associated with the very high value but less 
frequent licence transactions in Morello. 
LAWRENCE FLYNN
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
18th February 2008
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th September 2007 continued
MD2243– AR07 AW02.indd   4 MD2243– AR07 AW02.indd   4 26/2/08   13:49:33 26/2/08   13:49:33
